CHAPTER 11: We Break a Bridge
Fortunately, Blackjack was on duty.
I did my best taxicab whistle, and within a few minutes two dark shapes
circled out of the sky. They looked like hawks at first, but as they descended, I
could make out the long galloping legs of pegasi.
Yo, boss. Blackjack landed at a trot, his friend Porkpie right behind him. Man,
I thought those wind gods were gonna knock us to Pennsylvania until we said we
were with you!
‘Thanks for coming,’ I told him. ‘Hey, why do pegasi gallop as they fly,
anyway?’
Blackjack whinnied. Why do humans swing their arms as they walk? I dunno,
boss. It just feels right. Where to?
‘We need to get to the Williamsburg Bridge,’ I said.
Blackjack lowered his neck. You’re darn right, boss. We flew over it on the
way here and it don’t look good. Hop on!
On the way to the bridge, a knot formed in the pit of my stomach. The Minotaur
was one of the first monsters I’d ever defeated. Four years ago he’d nearly killed
my mother on Half-Blood Hill. I still had nightmares about that.
I’d been hoping he would stay dead for a few centuries, but I should’ve
known my luck wouldn’t hold.
We saw the battle before we were close enough to make out individual
fighters. It was well after midnight now, but the bridge blazed with light. Cars
were burning. Arcs of fire streamed in both directions as flaming arrows and
spears sailed through the air.
We came in for a low pass, and I saw the Apollo campers retreating. They
would hide behind cars and snipe at the approaching army, setting off explosive
arrows and dropping caltrops in the road, building fiery barricades wherever they
could, dragging sleeping drivers out of their cars to get them out of harm’s way.
But the enemy kept advancing. An entire phalanx of dracaenae marched in the
lead, their shields locked together, spear tips bristling over the top. An
occasional arrow would connect with their snaky trunks, or a neck, or a chink in
their armour, and the unlucky snake woman would disintegrate, but most of the
Apollo arrows glanced harmlessly off their shield wall. About a hundred more
monsters marched behind them.
Hellhounds leaped ahead of the line from time to time. Most were destroyed
with arrows, but one got hold of an Apollo camper and dragged him away. I
didn’t see what happened to him next. I didn’t want to know.
‘There!’ Annabeth called from the back of her pegasus.
Sure enough, in the middle of the invading legion was Old Beefhead himself.
The last time I’d seen the Minotaur, he’d been wearing nothing but his tighty
whities. I don’t know why. Maybe he’d been shaken out of bed to chase me. This
time, he was prepared for battle.
From the waist down, he wore standard Greek battle gear – a kilt-like apron of
leather and metal flaps, bronze greaves covering his legs and tightly wrapped
leather sandals. His top was all bull – hair and hide and muscle, leading to a head
so large he should’ve toppled over just from the weight of his horns. He seemed
larger than the last time I’d seen him – three metres tall at least. A double-bladed
axe was strapped to his back, but he was too impatient to use it. As soon as he
saw me circling overhead (or sniffed me more likely, since his eyesight was
bad), he bellowed and picked up a white limousine.
‘Blackjack, dive!’ I yelled.
What? the pegasus asked. No way could he – holy horse feed!
We were at least thirty metres up, but the limo came sailing towards us,
flipping fender over fender like a twoton boomerang. Annabeth and Porkpie
swerved madly to the left, while Blackjack tucked in his wings and plunged. The
limo sailed over my head, missing by maybe five centimetres. It cleared the
suspension lines of the bridge and fell towards the East River.
Monsters jeered and shouted, and the Minotaur picked up another car.
‘Drop us behind the lines with the Apollo cabin,’ I told Blackjack. ‘Stay in
earshot, but get out of danger!’
I ain’t gonna argue, boss!
Blackjack swooped down behind an overturned school bus where a couple of
campers were hiding. Annabeth and I leaped off as soon as our pegasi’s hooves
touched the pavement. Then Blackjack and Porkpie soared into the night sky.
Michael Yew ran up to us. He was definitely the shortest commando I’d ever
seen. He had a bandaged cut on his arm. His ferrety face was smeared with soot
and his quiver was almost empty, but he was smiling like he was having a great
time.
‘Glad you could join us,’ he said. ‘Where are the other reinforcements?’
‘For now, we’re it,’ I said.
‘Then we’re dead,’ he said.
‘You still have your flying chariot?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Nah,’ Michael said. ‘Left it at camp. I told Clarisse she could have it.
Whatever, you know? Not worth fighting about any more. But she said it was too
late. We’d insulted her honour for the last time or some stupid thing.’
‘Least you tried,’ I said.
Michael shrugged. ‘Yeah, well, I called her some names when she said she
still wouldn’t fight. I doubt that helped. Here come the uglies!’
He drew an arrow and launched it towards the enemy. The arrow made a
screaming sound as it flew. When it landed, it unleashed a blast like a power
chord on an electric guitar magnified through the world’s largest speakers. The
nearest cars exploded. Monsters dropped their weapons and clasped their ears in
pain. Some ran. Others disintegrated on the spot.
‘That was my last sonic arrow,’ Michael said.
‘A gift from your dad?’ I asked. ‘God of music?’
Michael grinned wickedly. ‘Loud music can be bad for you. Unfortunately, it
doesn’t always kill.’
Sure enough, most monsters were regrouping, shaking off their confusion.
‘We have to fall back,’ Michael said. ‘I’ve got Kayla and Austin setting traps
further down the bridge.’
‘No,’ I said. ‘Bring your campers forward to this position and wait for my
signal. We’re going to drive the enemy back to Brooklyn.’
Michael laughed. ‘How do you plan to do that?’
I drew my sword.
‘Percy,’ Annabeth said, ‘let me come with you.’
‘Too dangerous,’ I said. ‘Besides, I need you to help Michael coordinate the
defensive line. I’ll distract the monsters. You group up here. Move the sleeping
mortals out of the way. Then you can start picking off monsters while I keep
them focused on me. If anybody can do all that, you can.’
Michael snorted. ‘Thanks a lot.’
I kept my eyes on Annabeth.
She nodded reluctantly. ‘All right. Get moving.’
Before I could lose my courage, I said, ‘Don’t I get a kiss for luck? It’s kind of
a tradition, right?’
I figured she would punch me. Instead, she drew her knife and stared at the
army marching towards us. ‘Come back alive, Seaweed Brain. Then we’ll see.’
I figured it was the best offer I would get, so I stepped out from behind the
school bus. I walked up the bridge in plain sight, straight towards the enemy.
When the Minotaur saw me, his eyes burned with hate. He bellowed – a sound
that was somewhere between a yell, a moo and a really loud belch.
‘Hey, Beef Boy,’ I shouted back. ‘Didn’t I kill you already?’
He pounded his fist into the hood of a Lexus and it crumpled like tinfoil.
A few dracaenae threw flaming javelins at me. I knocked them aside. A
hellhound lunged and I sidestepped. I could have stabbed it, but I hesitated.
This is not Mrs O’Leary, I reminded myself. This is an untamed monster. It
will kill me and all my friends.
It pounced again. This time, I brought Riptide up in a deadly arc. The
hellhound disintegrated into dust and fur.
More monsters surged forward – snakes and giants and telkhines – but the
Minotaur roared at them and they backed off.
‘One on one?’ I called. ‘Just like old times?’
The Minotaur’s nostrils quivered. He seriously needed to keep a pack of Aloe
Vera Kleenex in his armour pocket, because that nose was wet and red and pretty
gross. He unstrapped his axe and swung it around.
It was beautiful in a harsh I’m going to gut you like a fish kind of way. Each of
its twin blades was shaped like an omega – – the last letter of the Greek
alphabet. Maybe that was because the axe would be the last thing his victims
ever saw. The shaft was about the same height as the Minotaur, bronze wrapped
in leather. Tied around the base of each blade were lots of bead necklaces. I
realized they were Camp Half-Blood beads – necklaces taken from defeated
demigods.
I was so mad I imagined my eyes glowing just like the Minotaur’s. I raised my
sword. The monster army cheered for the Minotaur, but the sound died when I
dodged his first swing and sliced his axe in half, right between the handholds.
‘Moo?’ he grunted.
‘HAAA!’ I spun and kicked him in the snout. He staggered backwards, trying
to regain his footing, then lowered his head to charge.
He never got the chance. My sword flashed – slicing off one horn, then the
other. He tried to grab me. I rolled away, picking up half of his broken axe. The
other monsters backed up in stunned silence, making a circle around us. The
Minotaur bellowed in rage. He was never very smart to begin with, but now his
anger made him reckless. He charged me and I ran for the edge of the bridge,
breaking through a line of dracaenae.
The Minotaur must’ve smelled victory. He thought I was trying to get away.
His minions cheered. At the edge of the bridge, I turned and braced the axe
against the railing to receive his charge. The Minotaur didn’t even slow down.
CRUNCH.
He looked down in surprise at the axe handle sprouting from his breastplate.
‘Thanks for playing,’ I told him.
I lifted him by his legs and tossed him over the side of the bridge. Even as he
fell, he was disintegrating, turning back into dust, his essence returning to
Tartarus.
I turned towards his army. It was now roughly one hundred and ninety-nine to
one. I did the natural thing. I charged them.
You’re going to ask how the ‘invincible’ thing worked – if I magically dodged
every weapon, or if the weapons hit me and just didn’t harm me. Honestly, I
don’t remember. All I knew was that I wasn’t going to let these monsters invade
my hometown.
I sliced through armour like it was made of paper. Snake-women exploded.
Hellhounds melted to shadow. I slashed and stabbed and whirled and I might
have even laughed once or twice – a crazy laugh that scared me as much as it did
my enemies. I was aware of the Apollo campers behind me shooting arrows,
disrupting every attempt by the enemy to rally. Finally the monsters turned and
fled – about twenty left alive out of two hundred.
I followed with the Apollo campers at my heels.
‘Yes!’ yelled Michael Yew. ‘That’s what I’m talking about!’
We drove them back towards the Brooklyn side of the bridge. The sky was
growing pale in the east. I could see the toll stations ahead.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘You’ve already routed them. Pull back! We’re
overextended!’
Some part of me knew she was right, but I was doing so well. I wanted to
destroy every last monster.
Then I saw the crowd at the base of the bridge. The retreating monsters were
running straight towards their reinforcements. It was small group, maybe thirty
or forty demigods in battle armour, mounted on skeletal horses. One of them
held a purple banner with the black scythe design.
The lead horseman trotted forward. He took off his helm and I recognized
Kronos himself, his eyes like molten gold.
Annabeth and the Apollo campers faltered. The monsters we’d been pursuing
reached the Titan’s line and were absorbed into the new force. Kronos gazed in
our direction. He was a quarter of a mile away, but I swear I could see him smile.
‘Now,’ I said, ‘we pull back.’
The Titan lord’s men drew their swords and charged. The hooves of their
skeletal horses thundered against the pavement. Our archers shot a volley,
bringing down several of the enemy, but they just kept riding.
‘Retreat!’ I told my friends. ‘I’ll hold them!’
In a matter of seconds they were on me.
Michael and his archers tried to retreat, but Annabeth stayed right beside me,
fighting with her knife and mirrored shield as we slowly backed up the bridge.
Kronos’s cavalry swirled around us, slashing and yelling insults. The Titan
himself advanced leisurely, like he had all the time in the world. Being the Lord
of Time, I guess he did.
I tried to wound his men, not kill. That slowed me down, but these weren’t
monsters. They were demigods who’d fallen under Kronos’s spell. I couldn’t see
faces under their battle helmets, but some of them had probably been my friends.
I slashed the legs off their horses and made the skeletal mounts disintegrate.
After the first few demigods took a spill, the rest figured out they’d better
dismount and fight me on foot.
Annabeth and I stayed shoulder to shoulder, facing opposite directions. A dark
shape passed over me and I dared to glance up. Blackjack and Porkpie were
swooping in, kicking our enemies in the helmets and flying away like very large
kamikaze pigeons.
We’d almost made it to the middle of the bridge when something strange
happened. I felt a chill down my spine – like that old saying about someone
walking on your grave. Behind me, Annabeth cried out in pain.
‘Annabeth!’ I turned in time to see her fall, clutching her arm. A demigod with
a bloody knife stood over her.
In a flash, I understood what had happened. He’d been trying to stab me.
Judging from the position of his blade, he would’ve taken me – maybe by sheer
luck – in the small of my back, my only weak point.
Annabeth had intercepted the knife with her own body.
But why? She didn’t know about my weak spot. No one did.
I locked eyes with the enemy demigod. He wore an eye patch under his war
helm: Ethan Nakamura, the son of Nemesis. Somehow he’d survived the
explosion on the Princess Andromeda. I slammed him in the face with my sword
hilt so hard I dented his helm.
‘Get back!’ I slashed the air in a wide arc, driving the rest of the demigods
away from Annabeth. ‘No one touches her!’
‘Interesting,’ Kronos said.
He towered above me on his skeletal horse, his scythe in one hand. He studied
the scene with narrowed eyes as if he could sense that I’d just come close to
death, the way a wolf can smell fear.
‘Bravely fought, Percy Jackson,’ he said. ‘But it’s time to surrender – or the
girl dies.’
‘Percy, don’t,’ Annabeth groaned. Her shirt was soaked with blood. I had to
get her out of here.
‘Blackjack!’ I yelled.
As fast as light, the pegasus swooped down and clamped his teeth on the
straps of Annabeth’s armour. They soared away over the river before the enemy
could even react.
Kronos snarled. ‘Some day soon, I am going to make pegasus soup. But in the
meantime …’ He dismounted, his scythe glistening in the dawn light. ‘I’ll settle
for another dead demigod.’
I met his first strike with Riptide. The impact shook the entire bridge, but I
held my ground. Kronos’s smile wavered.
With a yell, I kicked his legs out from under him. His scythe skittered across
the pavement. I stabbed downward, but he rolled aside and regained his footing.
His scythe flew back to his hands.
‘So …’ He studied me, looking mildly annoyed. ‘You had the courage to visit
the Styx. I had to pressure Luke in many ways to convince him. If only you had
supplied my host body instead … but no matter. I am still more powerful. I am a
TITAN.’
He struck the bridge with the butt of his scythe, and a wave of pure force
blasted me backwards. Cars went careening. Demigods – even Luke’s own men
– were blown off the edge of the bridge. Suspension cords whipped around and I
skidded halfway back to Manhattan.
I got unsteadily to my feet. The remaining Apollo campers had almost made it
to the end of the bridge – except for Michael Yew, who was perched on one of
the suspension cables a few metres away from me. His last arrow was notched in
his bow.
‘Michael, go!’ I screamed.
‘Percy, the bridge!’ he called. ‘It’s already weak!’
At first I didn’t understand. Then I looked down and saw fissures in the
pavement. Patches of the road were half melted from Greek fire. The bridge had
taken a beating from Kronos’s blast and the exploding arrows.
‘Break it!’ Michael yelled. ‘Use your powers!’
It was a desperate thought – no way it would work – but I stabbed Riptide into
the bridge. The magic blade sank to its hilt in tarmac. Salt water shot from the
crack like I’d hit a geyser. I pulled out my blade and the fissure grew. The bridge
shook and began to crumble. Chunks the size of houses fell into the East River.
Kronos’s demigods cried out in alarm and scrambled backwards. Some were
knocked off their feet. Within a few seconds, a twenty-metre chasm opened in
the Williamsburg Bridge between Kronos and me.
The vibrations died. Kronos’s men crept to the edge and looked at the fortymetre drop into the river.
I didn’t feel safe, though. The suspension cables were still attached. The men
could get across that way if they were brave enough. Or maybe Kronos had a
magic way to span the gap.
The Titan lord studied the problem. He looked behind him at the rising sun,
then smiled across the chasm. He raised his scythe in a mock salute. ‘Until this
evening, Jackson.’
He mounted his horse, whirled around and galloped back to Brooklyn
followed by his warriors.
I turned to thank Michael Yew, but the words died in my throat. Five metres
away, a bow lay in the street. Its owner was nowhere to be seen.
‘No!’ I searched the wreckage on my side of the bridge. I stared down at the
river. Nothing.
I yelled in anger and frustration. The sound carried forever in the morning
stillness. I was about to whistle for Blackjack to help me search when my mom’s
phone rang. The LCD display said I had a call from Finklestein & Associates –
probably a demigod calling on a borrowed phone.
I picked up, hoping for good news. Of course, I was wrong.
‘Percy?’ Silena Beauregard sounded like she’d been crying. ‘Plaza Hotel.
You’d better come quickly and bring a healer from Apollo’s cabin. It’s … it’s
Annabeth.’