CHAPTER 10: We Hitch a Ride with Dead Confederates
‘Flask!’ I screamed as we hurtled towards the water.
‘What? Annabeth must’ve thought I’d lost my mind. She was holding on to
the boat straps for dear life, her hair flying straight up like a torch.
But Tyson understood. He managed to open my duffel bag and take out
Hermes’s magical flask without losing his grip on it or the boat.
Arrows and javelins whistled past us.
I grabbed the Flask and hoped I was doing the right thing. ‘Hang on!’
‘I am hanging on!’ Annabeth yelled.
‘Tighter!’
I hooked my feet under the boat’s inflatable bench, and, as Tyson grabbed
Annabeth and me by the backs of our shirts, I gave the Flask cap a quarter turn.
Instantly, a white sheet of wind jetted out of the flask and propelled us
sideways, turning our downward plummet into a forty-five-degree crash landing.
The wind seemed to laugh as it shot from the flask, like it was glad to be free.
As we hit the ocean, we bumped once, twice, skipping like a stone, then we were
whizzing along like a speed boat, salt spray in our faces and nothing but sea
ahead.
I heard a wail of outrage from the ship behind us, but we were already out of
weapon range. The Princess Andromeda faded to the size of a white toy boat in
the distance, and then it was gone.
As we raced over the sea, Annabeth and I tried to send an Iris-message to
Chiron. We figured it was important we let somebody know what Luke was
doing, and we didn’t know who else to trust.
The wind from the Flask stirred up a nice sea spray that made a rainbow in the
sunlight – perfect for an Iris-message – but our connection was still poor. When
Annabeth threw a gold drachma into the mist and prayed for the rainbow
goddess to show us Chiron, his face appeared all right, but there was some kind
of weird strobe light flashing in the background and rock music blaring, like he
was at a dance club.
We told him about sneaking away from camp, and Luke and the Princess
Andromeda and the golden box for Kronos’s remains, but between the noise on
his end and the rushing wind and water on our end, I’m not sure how much he
heard.
‘Percy,’ Chiron yelled, ‘you have to watch out for –’
His voice was drowned out by loud shouting behind him – a bunch of voices
whooping it up like Comanche warriors.
‘What?’ I yelled.
‘Curse my relatives!’ Chiron ducked as a plate flew over his head and
shattered somewhere out of sight. ‘Annabeth, you shouldn’t have let Percy leave
camp! But if you do get the Fleece –’
‘Yeah, baby!’somebody behind Chiron yelled. ‘Woo-hoooooo!’
The music got cranked up, subwoofers so loud it made our boat vibrate.
‘– Miami,’ Chiron was yelling. ‘I’ll try to keep watch –’
Our misty screen smashed apart like someone on the other side had thrown a
bottle at it, and Chiron was gone.
An hour later we spotted land – a long stretch of beach lined with high-rise
hotels. The water became crowded with fishing boats and tankers. A coastguard
cruiser passed on our starboard side, then turned like it wanted a second look. I
guess it isn’t every day they see a yellow lifeboat with no engine going a
hundred knots an hour, manned by three kids.
‘That’s Virginia Beach!’ Annabeth said as we approached the shoreline. ‘Oh
my gods, how did the Princess Andromeda travel so far overnight? That’s like –’
‘Five hundred and thirty nautical miles,’ I said.
She stared at me. ‘How did you know that?’
‘I – I’m not sure.’
Annabeth thought for a moment. ‘Percy, what’s our position?’
‘Thirty-six degrees, forty-four minutes north, seventy-six degrees, two
minutes west,’ I said immediately. Then I shook my head. ‘Whoa. How did I
know that?’
‘Because of your dad,’ Annabeth guessed. ‘When you’re at sea, you have
perfect bearings. That is so cool.’
I wasn’t sure about that. I didn’t want to be a human GPS unit. But before I
could say anything, Tyson tapped my shoulder. ‘Other boat is coming.’
I looked back. The coastguard vessel was definitely on our tail now. Its lights
were flashing and it was gaining speed.
‘We can’t let them catch us,’ I said. ‘They’ll ask too many questions.’
‘Keep going into Chesapeake Bay,’ Annabeth said. ‘I know a place we can
hide.’
I didn’t ask what she meant, or how she knew the area so well. I risked
loosening the Flask cap a little more, and a fresh burst of wind sent us rocketing
around the northern tip of Virginia Beach into Chesapeake Bay. The coastguard
boat fell further and further behind. We didn’t slow down until the shores of the
bay narrowed on either side, and I realized we’d entered the mouth of a river.
I could feel the change from salt water to fresh water. Suddenly I was tired
and frazzled, like I was coming down off a sugar high. I didn’t know where I
was any more, or which way to steer the boat. It was a good thing Annabeth was
directing me.
‘There,’she said. ‘Past that sandbar.’
We veered into a swampy area choked with marsh grass. I beached the
lifeboat at the foot of a giant cypress.
Vine-covered trees loomed above us. Insects chirred in the woods. The air was
muggy and hot, and steam curled off the river. Basically, it wasn’t Manhattan,
and I didn’t like it.
‘Come on,’ Annabeth said. ‘It’s just down the bank.’
‘What is?’ I asked.
‘Just follow.’ She grabbed a duffel bag. ‘And we’d better cover the boat. We
don’t want to draw attention.’
After burying the lifeboat with branches, Tyson and I followed Annabeth
along the shore, our feet sinking in red mud. A snake slithered past my shoe and
disappeared into the grass.
‘Not a good place,’ Tyson said. He swatted the mosquitoes that were forming
a buffet queue on his arm.
After another few minutes, Annabeth said, ‘Here.’
All I saw was a patch of brambles. Then Annabeth moved aside a woven
circle of branches, like a door, and I realized I was looking into a camouflaged
shelter.
The inside was big enough for three, even with Tyson being the third. The
walls were woven from plant material, like a Native American hut, but they
looked pretty waterproof. Stacked in the corner was everything you could want
for a campout – sleeping bags, blankets, an ice chest and a kerosene lamp. There
were demigod provisions, too – bronze javelin tips, a quiver full of arrows, an
extra sword and a box of ambrosia. The place smelled musty, like it had been
vacant for a long time.
‘A half-blood hideout.’ I looked at Annabeth in awe. ‘You made this place?’
‘Thalia and I,’she said quietly. ‘And Luke.’
That shouldn’t have bothered me. I mean, I knew Thalia and Luke had taken
care of Annabeth when she was little. I knew the three of them had been
runaways together, hiding from monsters, surviving on their own before Grover
found them and tried to get them to Half-Blood Hill. But whenever Annabeth
talked about the time she’d spent with them, I kind of felt … I don’t know.
Uncomfortable?
No. That’s not the word.
The word was jealous.
‘So…’ I said. ‘You don’t think Luke will look for us here?’
She shook her head. ‘We made a dozen safe houses like this. I doubt Luke
even remembers where they are. Or cares.’
She threw herself down on the blankets and started going through her duffel
bag. Her body language made it pretty clear she didn’t want to talk.
‘Um, Tyson?’ I said. ‘Would you mind scouting around outside? Like, look for
a wilderness convenience store or something?’
‘Convenience store?’
‘Yeah, for snacks. Powdered doughnuts or something. Just don’t go too far.’
‘Powdered doughnuts,’ Tyson said earnestly. ‘I will look for powdered
doughnuts in the wilderness.’ He headed outside and started calling, ‘Here,
doughnuts!’
Once he was gone, I sat down across from Annabeth. ‘Hey, I’m sorry about,
you know, seeing Luke.’
‘It’s not your fault.’ She unsheathed her knife and started cleaning the blade
with a rag.
‘He let us go too easily,’ I said.
I hoped I’d been imagining it, but Annabeth nodded. ‘I was thinking the same
thing. What we overheard him say about a gamble, and “they’ll take the bait” …
I think he was talking about us.’
‘The Fleece is the bait? Or Grover?’
She studied the edge of her knife. ‘I don’t know, Percy. Maybe he wants the
Fleece for himself. Maybe he’s hoping we’ll do the hard work and then he can
steal it from us. I just can’t believe he would poison the tree.’
‘What did he mean,’ I asked, ‘that Thalia would’ve been on his side?’
‘He’s wrong.’
‘You don’t sound sure.’
Annabeth glared at me, and I started to wish I hadn’t asked her about this
while she was holding a knife.
‘Percy, you know who you remind me of most? Thalia. You guys are so much
alike it’s scary. I mean, either you would’ve been best friends or you would’ve
strangled each other.’
‘Let’s go with “best friends.” ’
‘Thalia got angry with her dad sometimes. So do you. Would you turn against
Olympus because of that?’
I stared at the quiver of arrows in the corner. ‘No.’
‘Okay, then. Neither would she. Luke’s wrong.’ Annabeth stuck her knife
blade into the dirt.
I wanted to ask her about the prophecy Luke had mentioned and what it had to
do with my sixteenth birthday. But I figured she wouldn’t tell me. Chiron had
made it pretty clear that I wasn’t allowed to hear it until the gods decided
otherwise.
‘So what did Luke mean about Cyclopes?’ I asked. ‘He said you of all people
–’
‘I know what he said. He … he was talking about the real reason Thalia died.’
I waited, not sure what to say.
Annabeth drew a shaky breath. ‘You can never trust a Cyclops, Percy. Six
years ago, on the night Grover was leading us to Half-Blood Hill –’
She was interrupted when the door of the hut creaked open. Tyson crawled in.
‘Powdered doughnuts!’ he said proudly, holding up a pastry box.
Annabeth stared at him. ‘Where did you get that? We’re in the middle of the
wilderness. There’s nothing around for –’
‘Fifteen metres,’ Tyson said. ‘Monster Doughnut shop – just over the hill!’
‘This is bad,’ Annabeth muttered.
We were crouching behind a tree, staring at the doughnut shop in the middle
of the woods. It looked brand new, with brightly lit windows, a parking area and
a little road leading off into the forest, but there was nothing else around, and no
cars parked in the lot. We could see one employee reading a magazine behind the
cash register. That was it. On the store’s awning, in huge black letters that even I
could read, it said:
MONSTER DOUGHNUT
A cartoon ogre was taking a bite out of the O in MONSTER. The place smelled
good, like fresh-baked chocolate doughnuts.
‘This shouldn’t be here,’ Annabeth whispered. ‘It’s wrong.’
‘What?’ I asked. ‘It’s a doughnut shop.’
‘Shhh!’
‘Why are we whispering? Tyson went in and bought a dozen. Nothing
happened to him.’
‘He’s a monster.’
‘Aw, c’mon, Annabeth. Monster Doughnut doesn’t mean monsters! It’s a
chain. We’ve got them in New York.’
‘A chain,’ she agreed. ‘And don’t you think it’s strange that one appeared
immediately after you told Tyson to get doughnuts? Right here in the middle of
the woods?’
I thought about it. It did seem a little weird, but, I mean, doughnut shops
weren’t real high on my list of sinister forces.
‘It could be a nest,’ Annabeth explained.
Tyson whimpered. I doubt he understood what Annabeth was saying any
better than I did, but her tone was making him nervous. He’d ploughed through
half a dozen doughnuts from his box and was getting powdered sugar all over his
face.
‘A nest for what?’ I asked.
‘Haven’t you ever wondered how franchise stores pop up so fast?’ she asked.
‘One day there’s nothing and then the next day – boom, there’s a new burger
place or a coffee shop or whatever? First a single store, then two, then four –
exact replicas spreading across the country?’
‘Um, no. Never thought about it.’
‘Percy, some of the chains multiply so fast because all their locations are
magically linked to the life force of a monster. Some children of Hermes figured
out how to do it back in the 1950s. They breed –’
She froze.
‘What?’ I demanded. ‘They breed what?’
‘No – sudden – moves,’ Annabeth said, like her life depended on it. ‘Very
slowly, turn around.’
Then I heard it: a scraping noise, like something large dragging its belly
through the leaves.
I turned and saw a rhino-size thing moving through the shadows of the trees.
It was hissing, its front half writhing in all different directions. I couldn’t
understand what I was seeing at first. Then I realized the thing had multiple
necks – at least seven, each topped with a hissing reptilian head. Its skin was
leathery, and under each neck it wore a plastic bib that read: I’M A MONSTER
DOUGHNUT KID!
I took out my ballpoint pen, but Annabeth locked eyes with me – a silent
warning. Not yet.
I understood. A lot of monsters have terrible eyesight. It was possible the
Hydra might pass us by. But if I uncapped my sword now, the bronze glow
would certainly get its attention.
We waited.
The Hydra was only a metre or so away. It seemed to be sniffing the ground
and the trees like it was hunting for something. Then I noticed that two of the
heads were ripping apart a piece of yellow canvas – one of our duffel bags. The
thing had already been to our campsite. It was following our scent.
My heart pounded. I’d seen a stuffed Hydra-head trophy at camp before, but
that did nothing to prepare me for the real thing. Each head was diamondshaped, like a rattlesnake’s, but the mouths were lined with jagged rows of
sharklike teeth.
Tyson was trembling. He stepped back and accidentally snapped a twig.
Immediately, all seven heads turned towards us and hissed.
‘Scatter!’ Annabeth yelled. She dived to the right.
I rolled to the left. One of the Hydra heads spat an arc of green liquid that shot
past my shoulder and splashed against an elm. The trunk smoked and began to
disintegrate. The whole tree toppled straight towards Tyson, who still hadn’t
moved, petrified by the monster that was now right in front of him.
‘Tyson!’ I tackled him with all my might, knocking him aside just as the
Hydra lunged and the tree crashed on top of two of its heads.
The Hydra stumbled backwards, yanking its heads free and wailing in outrage
at the fallen tree. All seven heads shot acid, and the elm melted into a steaming
pool of muck.
‘Move!’ I told Tyson. I ran to one side and uncapped Riptide, hoping to draw
the monster’s attention.
It worked.
The sight of celestial bronze is hateful to most monsters. As soon as my
glowing blade appeared, the Hydra whipped towards it with all its heads, hissing
and baring its teeth.
The good news: Tyson was momentarily out of danger. The bad news: I was
about to be melted into a puddle of goo.
One of the heads snapped at me experimentally. Without thinking, I swung my
sword.
‘No!’ Annabeth yelled.
Too late. I sliced the Hydra’s head clean off. It rolled away into the grass,
leaving a flailing stump, which immediately stopped bleeding and began to swell
like a balloon.
In a matter of seconds the wounded neck split into two necks, each of which
grew a full-size head. Now I was looking at an eight-headed Hydra.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth scolded. ‘You just opened another Monster Doughnut shop
somewhere!’
I dodged a spray of acid. ‘I’m about to die and you’re worried about that?
How do we kill it?’
‘Fire!’ Annabeth said. ‘We have to have fire!’
As soon as she said that, I remembered the story. The Hydra’s heads would
only stop multiplying if we burned the stumps before they regrew. That’s what
Heracles had done, anyway. But we had no fire.
I backed up towards the river. The Hydra followed.
Annabeth moved in on my left and tried to distract one of the heads, parrying
its teeth with her knife, but another head swung sideways like a club and
knocked her into the muck.
‘No hitting my friends!’ Tyson charged in, putting himself between the Hydra
and Annabeth. As Annabeth got to her feet, Tyson started smashing at the
monster heads with his fists so fast it reminded me of the whack-a-mole game at
the arcade. But even Tyson couldn’t fend off the Hydra forever.
We kept inching backwards, dodging acid splashes and deflecting snapping
heads without cutting them off, but I knew we were only postponing our deaths.
Eventually, we would make a mistake and the thing would kill us.
Then I heard a strange sound – a chug-chug-chug that at first I thought was
my heartbeat. It was so powerful it made the riverbank shake.
‘What’s that noise?’ Annabeth shouted, keeping her eyes on the Hydra.
‘Steam engine,’ Tyson said.
‘What? I ducked as the Hydra spat acid over my head.
Then from the river behind us, a familiar female voice shouted, ‘There!
Prepare the thirty-two-pounder!’
I didn’t dare look away from the Hydra, but if that was who I thought it was
behind us, I figured we now had enemies on two fronts.
A gravelly male voice said, ‘They’re too close, m’lady!’
‘Damn the heroes!’ the girl said. ‘Full steam ahead!’
‘Aye, m’lady.’
‘Fire at will, Captain!’
Annabeth understood what was happening a split second before I did. She
yelled, ‘Hit the dirt!’ and we dived for the ground as an earth-shattering BOOM
echoed from the river. There was a flash of light, a column of smoke and the
Hydra exploded right in front of us, showering us with nasty green slime that
vaporized as soon as it hit, the way monster guts tend to do.
‘Gross!’screamed Annabeth.
‘Steamship!’ yelled Tyson.
I stood, coughing from the cloud of gunpowder smoke that was rolling across
the banks.
Chugging towards us down the river was the strangest ship I’d ever seen. It
rode low in the water like a submarine, its deck plated with iron. In the middle
was a trapezoid-shaped casemate with slats on each side for cannons. A flag
waved from the top – a wild boar and spear on a blood-red field. Lining the deck
were zombies in grey uniforms – dead soldiers with shimmering faces that only
partially covered their skulls, like the ghouls I’d seen in the Underworld
guarding Hades’s palace.
The ship was an ironclad. A Civil War battle cruiser. I could just make out the
name along the prow in moss-covered letters: CSS Birmingham.
And standing next to the smoking cannon that had almost killed us, wearing
full Greek battle armour, was Clarisse.
‘Losers,’she sneered. ‘But I suppose I have to rescue you. Come aboard.’