CHAPTER 16: I Open a Coffin
Jumping out of a window one hundred and fifty metres above ground is not
usually my idea of fun. Especially when I’m wearing bronze wings and flapping
my arms like a duck.
I plummeted towards the valley and the red rocks below. I was pretty sure I
was going to become a grease spot in the Garden of the Gods, as Annabeth
yelled from somewhere above me, ‘Spread your arms! Keep them extended.’
The small part of my brain that wasn’t engulfed in panic heard her, and my
arms responded. As soon as I spread them out, the wings stiffened, caught the
wind and my descent slowed. I soared downwards, but at a controlled angle, like
a kite in a dive.
Experimentally, I flapped my arms once. I arced into the sky, the wind
whistling in my ears.
‘Yeah!’ I yelled. The feeling was unbelievable. After getting the hang of it, I
felt like the wings were part of my body. I could soar and swoop and dive
anywhere I wanted to.
I turned and saw my friends – Rachel, Annabeth and Nico – spiralling above
me, glinting in the sunlight. Behind them, smoke billowed from the windows of
Daedalus’s workshop.
‘Land!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘These wings won’t last forever.’
‘How long?’ Rachel cried.
‘I don’t want to find out!’ Annabeth said.
We swooped down towards the Garden of the Gods. I did a complete circle
around one of the rock spires and freaked out a couple of climbers. Then the four
of us soared across the valley, over a road, and landed on the terrace of the
visitor centre. It was late afternoon and the place looked pretty empty, but we
ripped off our wings as quickly as we could. Looking at them, I could see
Annabeth was right. The self-adhesive seals that bound the wings to our backs
were already melting, and we were shedding bronze feathers. It seemed a shame,
but we couldn’t fix them, and couldn’t leave them around for the mortals, so we
stuffed the wings in the bin outside the cafeteria.
I used the tourist binocular camera to look up at the hill where Daedalus’s
workshop had been, but it had vanished. No more smoke. No broken windows.
Just the side of a hill.
‘The workshop moved,’ Annabeth guessed. ‘There’s no telling where.’
‘So what do we do now?’ I asked. ‘How do we get back in the maze?’
Annabeth gazed at the summit of Pikes Peak in the distance. ‘Maybe we can’t.
If Daedalus died… he said his life force was tied to the Labyrinth. The whole
thing might’ve been destroyed. Maybe that will stop Luke’s invasion.’
I thought about Grover and Tyson, still down there somewhere. And
Daedalus… even though he’d done some terrible things and put everybody I
cared about at risk, it still seemed like a pretty horrible way to die.
‘No,’ Nico said. ‘He isn’t dead.’
‘How can you be sure?’ I asked.
‘I know when people die. It’s this feeling I get, like a buzzing in my ears.’
‘What about Tyson and Grover, then?’
Nico shook his head. ‘That’s harder. They’re not humans or half-bloods. They
don’t have mortal souls.’
‘We have to get into town,’ Annabeth decided. ‘Our chances of finding an
entrance to the Labyrinth will be better. We have to make it back to camp before
Luke and his army.’
‘We could just take a plane,’ Rachel said.
I shuddered. ‘I don’t fly.’
‘But you just did.’
‘That was low flying,’ I said, ‘and even that’s risky. Flying up really high –
that’s Zeus’s territory. I can’t do it. Besides, we don’t even have time for a flight.
The Labyrinth is the quickest way back.’
I didn’t want to say it, but I was also hoping that maybe, just maybe, we
would find Grover and Tyson along the way.
‘So we need a car to take us into the city,’ Annabeth said.
Rachel looked down into the parking lot. She grimaced, as if she were about
to do something she regretted. ‘I’ll take care of it.’
‘How?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Just trust me.’
Annabeth looked uneasy, but she nodded. ‘Okay, I’m going to buy a prism in
the gift shop, try to make a rainbow and send an Iris-message to camp.’
‘I’ll go with you,’ Nico said. ‘I’m hungry.’
‘I’ll stick with Rachel, then,’ I said. ‘Meet you guys in the parking lot.’
Rachel frowned like she didn’t want me with her. That made me feel kind of
bad, but I followed her down to the parking lot anyway.
She headed towards a big black car parked at the edge of the lot. It was a
chauffeured Lexus, like the kind I always saw driving around Manhattan. The
driver was out at the front, reading a newspaper. He wore a dark suit and tie.
‘What are you going to do?’ I asked Rachel.
‘Just wait here,’she said miserably. ‘Please.’
Rachel marched straight up to the driver and talked to him. He frowned.
Rachel said something else. He turned pale and hastily folded up his magazine.
He nodded and fumbled for his cell phone. After a brief call, he opened the back
door of the car for Rachel to get in. She pointed back in my direction, and the
driver bobbed his head some more, like Yes, ma’am. Whatever you want.
I couldn’t figure out why he was acting so flustered.
Rachel came back to get me just as Nico and Annabeth appeared from the gift
shop.
‘I talked to Chiron,’ Annabeth said. ‘They’re doing their best to prepare for
battle, but he still wants us back. They’re going to need every hero they can get.
Did we find a ride?’
‘The driver’s ready when we are,’ Rachel said.
The chauffeur was now talking to another guy in khakis and a polo shirt,
probably his client who’d rented the car. The client was complaining, but I could
hear the driver saying, ‘I’m sorry, sir. Emergency. I’ve ordered another car for
you.’
‘Come on,’ Rachel said. She led us to the car and got in without even looking
at the annoyed guy who’d rented it. A minute later we were cruising down the
road. The seats were leather. There was plenty of leg room. The back seat had
flat-panel TVs built into the headrests and a mini-fridge stocked with bottled
water, drinks and snacks. We started pigging out.
‘Where to, Miss Dare?’ the driver asked.
‘I’m not sure yet, Robert,’ she said. ‘We just need to drive through town and,
uh, look around.’
‘Whatever you say, miss.’
I looked at Rachel. ‘Do you know this guy?’
‘No.’
‘But he dropped everything to help you. Why?’
‘Just keep your eyes peeled,’she said. ‘Help me look.’
Which didn’t exactly answer my question.
We drove through Colorado Springs for about half an hour and saw nothing
that Rachel considered a possible Labyrinth entrance. I was very aware of
Rachel’s shoulder pressing against mine. I kept wondering who she was exactly,
and how she could walk up to some random chauffeur and immediately get a
ride.
After about an hour we decided to head north towards Denver, thinking that
maybe a bigger city would be more likely to have a Labyrinth entrance, but we
were all getting nervous. We were losing time.
Then, right as we were leaving Colorado Springs, Rachel sat bolt upright. ‘Get
off the highway!’
The driver glanced back. ‘Miss?’
‘I saw something, I think. Get off here.’
The driver swerved across traffic and took the exit.
‘What did you see?’ I asked, because we were pretty much out of the city now.
There wasn’t anything around except hills, grassland and some scattered farm
buildings.
Rachel had the driver turn down this unpromising dirt road. We drove by a
sign too fast for me to read it, but Rachel said, ‘Western Museum of Mining and
Industry.’
For a museum, it didn’t look like much – a little house like an old-fashioned
railroad station, some drills and pumps and old steam shovels on display outside.
‘There.’ Rachel pointed to a hole in the side of a nearby hill – a tunnel that
was boarded up and chained. ‘An old mine entrance.’
‘A door to the Labyrinth?’ Annabeth asked. ‘How can you be sure?’
‘Well, look at it!’ Rachel said. ‘I mean… I can see it, okay?’
She thanked the driver and we all got out. He didn’t ask for money or
anything. ‘Are you sure you’ll be all right, Miss Dare? I’d be happy to call your
–’
‘No!’ Rachel said. ‘No, really. Thanks, Robert. But we’re fine.’
The museum seemed to be closed, so nobody bothered us as we climbed the
hill to the mine shaft. When we got to the entrance, I saw the mark of Daedalus
engraved on the padlock, though how Rachel had seen something so tiny all the
way from the highway I had no idea. I touched the padlock and the chains fell
away. We kicked down a few boards and walked inside. For better or worse, we
were back in the Labyrinth.
The dirt tunnels turned to stone. They wound around and split off and basically
tried to confuse us, but Rachel had no trouble guiding us. We told her we needed
to get back to New York, and she hardly even paused when the tunnels offered a
choice.
To my surprise, Rachel and Annabeth started up a conversation as we walked.
Annabeth asked her more about her background, but Rachel was evasive so they
started talking about architecture. It turned out that Rachel knew something
about it from studying art. They talked about different facades on buildings
around New York – ‘Have you seen this one,’ blah, blah, blah, so I hung back
and walked next to Nico in uncomfortable silence.
‘Thanks for coming after us,’ I told him at last.
Nico’s eyes narrowed. He didn’t seem as angry as he used to – just suspicious,
careful. ‘I owed you for the ranch, Percy. Plus… I wanted to see Daedalus for
myself. Minos was right, in a way. Daedalus should die. Nobody should be able
to avoid death that long. It’s not natural.’
‘That’s what you were after all along,’ I said. ‘Trading Daedalus’s soul for
your sister’s.’
Nico walked for another fifty metres before answering. ‘It hasn’t been easy,
you know. Having only the dead for company. Knowing that I’ll never be
accepted by the living. Only the dead respect me, and they only do that out of
fear.’
‘You could be accepted,’ I said. ‘You could have friends at camp.’
He stared at me. ‘Do you really believe that, Percy?’
I didn’t answer. The truth was, I didn’t know. Nico had always been a little
different, but since Bianca’s death, he’d become almost… scary. He had his
father’s eyes – that intense, manic fire that made you suspect he was either a
genius or a madman. And the way he’d banished Minos, and called himself the
king of ghosts – it was kind of impressive, but it made me uncomfortable, too.
Before I could figure out what to tell him, I ran into Rachel, who’d stopped in
front of me. We’d come to a crossroads. The tunnel continued straight ahead, but
a side tunnel T’d off to the right – a circular shaft carved from black volcanic
rock.
‘What is it?’ I asked.
Rachel stared down the dark tunnel. In the dim flashlight beam, her face
looked like one of Nico’s spectres.
‘Is that the way?’ Annabeth asked.
‘No,’ Rachel said nervously. ‘Not at all.’
‘Why are we stopping, then?’ I asked.
‘Listen,’ Nico said.
I heard wind coming down the tunnel, as if the exit were close. And I smelled
something vaguely familiar – something that brought back bad memories.
‘Eucalyptus trees,’ I said. ‘Like in California.’
Last winter, when we’d faced Luke and the Titan Atlas on top of Mount
Tamalpais, the air had smelled just like that.
‘There’s something evil down that tunnel,’ Rachel said. ‘Something very
powerful.’
‘And the smell of death,’ Nico added, which made me feel a whole lot better.
Annabeth and I exchanged glances.
‘Luke’s entrance,’ she guessed. ‘The one to Mount Othrys – the Titans’
palace.’
‘I have to check it out,’ I said.
‘Percy, no.’
‘Luke could be right there,’ I said. ‘Or… or Kronos. I have to find out what’s
going on.’
Annabeth hesitated. ‘Then we’ll all go.’
‘No,’ I said. ‘It’s too dangerous. If they got hold of Nico, or Rachel for that
matter, Kronos could use them. You stay here and guard them.’
What I didn’t say: I was also worried about Annabeth. I didn’t trust what she
would do if she saw Luke again. He had fooled her and manipulated her too
many times before.
‘Percy, don’t,’ Rachel said. ‘Don’t go up there alone.’
‘I’ll be quick,’ I promised. ‘I won’t do anything stupid.’
Annabeth took her Yankees cap out of her pocket. ‘At least take this. And be
careful.’
‘Thanks,’ I remembered the last time Annabeth and I had parted ways, when
she’d given me a kiss for luck in Mount St Helens. This time, all I got was the
hat.
I put it on. ‘Here goes nothing,’ And I sneaked invisibly down the dark stone
tunnel.
Before I even got to the exit I heard voices: the growling, barking sounds of seademon smiths, the telkhines.
‘At least we salvaged the blade,’ one said. ‘The master will still reward us.’
‘Yes! Yes!’ a second shrieked. ‘Rewards beyond measure!’
Another voice, this one more human, said: ‘Um, yeah, well that’s great. Now,
if you’re done with me –’
‘No, half-blood!’ a telkhine said. ‘You must help us make the presentation. It
is a great honour!’
‘Gee, thanks,’ the half-blood said, and I realized it was Ethan Nakamura, the
guy who’d run away after I’d saved his sorry life in the arena.
I crept towards the end of the tunnel. I had to remind myself I was invisible.
They shouldn’t be able to see me.
A blast of cold air hit me as I emerged. I was standing near the top of Mount
Tam. The Pacific Ocean spread out below, grey under a cloudy sky. About six
metres downhill, two telkhines were placing something on a big rock –
something long and thin and wrapped in black cloth. Ethan was helping them
open it.
‘Careful, fool,’ the telkhine scolded. ‘One touch, and the blade will sever your
soul from your body.’
Ethan swallowed nervously. ‘Maybe I’ll let you unwrap it, then.’
I glanced up at the mountain’s peak, where a black marble fortress loomed,
just like I’d seen in my dreams. It reminded me of an oversized mausoleum, with
walls fifteen metres high. I had no idea how mortals could miss the fact that it
was here. But, then again, everything below the summit seemed fuzzy to me, as
if there were a thick veil between me and the lower half of the mountain. There
was magic going on here – really powerful Mist. Above me, the sky swirled into
a huge funnel cloud. I couldn’t see Atlas, but I could hear him groaning in the
distance, still labouring under the weight of the sky, just beyond the fortress.
‘There!’ the telkhine said. Reverently, he lifted the weapon, and my blood
turned to ice.
It was a scythe – a two-metre-long blade curved like a crescent moon, with a
wooden handle wrapped in leather. The blade glinted two different colours –
steel and bronze. It was the weapon of Kronos, the one he’d used to slice up his
father, Ouranos, before the gods had taken it away from him and cut Kronos to
pieces, casting him into Tartarus. Now the weapon was reforged.
‘We must sanctify it in blood,’ the telkhine said. ‘Then you, half-blood, shall
help present it when the lord awakes.’
I ran towards the fortress, my pulse pounding in my ears. I didn’t want to get
anywhere close to that horrible black mausoleum, but I knew what I had to do. I
had to stop Kronos from rising. This might be my only chance.
I dashed through a dark foyer and into the main hall. The floor shone like a
mahogany piano – pure black and yet full of light. Black marble statues lined the
walls. I didn’t recognize the faces, but I knew I was looking at images of the
Titans who’d ruled before the gods. At the end of the room, between two bronze
braziers, was a dais. And on the dais, the golden sarcophagus.
The room was silent except for the crackle of the fires. Luke wasn’t here. No
guards. Nothing.
It was too easy, but I approached the dais.
The sarcophagus was just like I remembered – about three metres long, much
too big for a human. It was carved with elaborate scenes of death and
destruction, pictures of the gods being trampled under chariots, temples and
famous world landmarks being smashed and burned. The whole coffin gave off
an aura of extreme cold, like I was walking into a freezer. My breath began to
steam.
I drew Riptide and took a little comfort from the familiar weight of the sword
in my hand.
Whenever I’d approached Kronos before, his evil voice had spoken in my
mind. Why was he silent now? He’d been shredded into a thousand pieces, cut
with his own scythe. What would I find if I opened that lid? How could they
make a new body for him?
I had no answers. I just knew that if he was about to rise, I had to strike him
down before he got his scythe. I had to figure out a way to stop him.
I stood over the coffin. The lid was decorated even more intricately than the
sides – with scenes of carnage and power. In the middle was an inscription
carved in letters even older than Greek, a language of magic. I couldn’t read it,
exactly, but I knew what it said: KRONOS, LORD OF TIME.
My hand touched the lid. My fingertips turned blue. Frost gathered on my
sword.
Then I heard noises behind me – voices approaching. It was now or never. I
pushed back the golden lid and it fell to the floor with a huge WHOOOOM!
I lifted my sword, ready to strike. But when I looked inside I didn’t
comprehend what I was seeing. Mortal legs, dressed in grey trousers. A white Tshirt, hands folded over his stomach. One piece of his chest was missing – a
clean black hole about the size of a bullet wound, right where his heart should’ve
been. His eyes were closed. His skin was pale. Blond hair… and a scar running
along the left side of his face.
The body in the coffin was Luke’s.
I should have stabbed him right then. I should’ve brought the point of Riptide
down with all my strength.
But I was too stunned. I didn’t understand. As much as I hated Luke, as much
as he had betrayed me, I just didn’t get why he was in the coffin, and why he
looked so very, very dead.
Then the voices of the telkhines were right behind me.
‘What has happened!’ one of the demons screamed when he saw the lid. I
stumbled away from the dais, forgetting that I was invisible, and hid behind a
column as they approached.
‘Careful!’ the other demon warned. ‘Perhaps he stirs. We must present the
gifts now. Immediately!’
The two telkhines shuffled forward and knelt, holding up the scythe on its
wrapping cloth. ‘My lord,’ one said. ‘Your symbol of power is remade.’
Silence. Nothing happened in the coffin.
‘You fool,’ the other telkhine muttered. ‘He requires the half-blood first.’
Ethan stepped back. ‘Whoa, what do you mean, he requires me?’
‘Don’t be a coward!’ the first telkhine hissed. ‘He does not require your death.
Only your allegiance. Pledge him your service. Renounce the gods. That is all.’
‘No!’ I yelled. It was a stupid thing to do, but I charged into the room and took
off the cap. ‘Ethan, don’t!’
‘Trespasser!’ The telkhines bared their seal teeth. ‘The master will deal with
you soon enough. Hurry, boy!’
‘Ethan,’ I pleaded, ‘don’t listen to them. Help me destroy it.’
Ethan turned towards me, his eye patch blending in with the shadows on his
face. His expression was something like pity. ‘I told you not to spare me, Percy.
“An eye for an eye.” You ever hear that saying? I learned what it means the hard
way – when I discovered my godly parent. I’m the child of Nemesis, Goddess of
Revenge. And this is what I was made to do.’
He turned towards the dais. ‘I renounce the gods! What have they ever done
for me? I will see them destroyed. I will serve Kronos.’
The building rumbled. A wisp of blue light rose from the floor at Ethan
Nakamura’s feet. It drifted towards the coffin and began to shimmer, like a cloud
of pure energy. Then it descended into the sarcophagus.
Luke sat bolt upright. His eyes opened, and they were no longer blue. They
were golden, the same colour as the coffin. The hole in his chest was gone. He
was complete. He leaped out of the coffin with ease, and where his feet touched
the floor, the marble froze like craters of ice.
He looked at Ethan and the telkhines with those horrible golden eyes, as if he
were a newborn baby, not sure what he was seeing. Then he looked at me, and a
smile of recognition crept across his mouth.
‘This body has been well prepared.’ His voice was like a razor blade running
over my skin. It was Luke’s, but not Luke’s. Underneath his voice was another,
more horrible sound – an ancient, cold sound like metal scraping against rock.
‘Don’t you think so, Percy Jackson?’
I couldn’t move. I couldn’t answer.
Kronos threw back his head and laughed. The scar on his face rippled.
‘Luke feared you,’ the Titan’s voice said. ‘His jealousy and hatred have been
powerful tools. It has kept him obedient. For that I thank you.’
Ethan collapsed in terror. He covered his face with his hands. The telkhines
trembled, holding up the scythe.
Finally I found my nerve. I lunged at the thing that used to be Luke, thrusting
my blade straight at his chest, but his skin deflected the blow like he was made
of pure steel. He looked at me with amusement. Then he flicked his hand, and I
flew across the room.
I slammed against a pillar. I struggled to my feet, blinking the stars out of my
eyes, but Kronos had already grasped the handle of his scythe.
‘Ah… much better,’ he said. ‘Backbiter, Luke called it. An appropriate name.
Now that it is reforged completely, it shall indeed bite back.’
‘What have you done to Luke?’ I groaned.
Kronos raised his scythe. ‘He serves me with his whole being, as I require.
The difference is, he feared you, Percy Jackson. I do not.’
That’s when I ran. There wasn’t even any thought to it. No debate in my mind
about – gee, should I stand up to him and try to fight again? Nope. I simply ran.
But my feet felt like lead. Time slowed down around me, like the world was
turning to Jell-O. I’d had this feeling once before, and I knew it was the power of
Kronos. His presence was so strong it could bend time itself.
‘Run, little hero,’ he laughed. ‘Run!’
I glanced back and saw him approaching leisurely, swinging his scythe as if he
were enjoying the feel of having it in his hands again. No weapon in the world
could stop him. No amount of celestial bronze.
He was three metres away when I heard, ‘PERCY!’
Rachel’s voice.
Something flew past me, and a blue plastic hairbrush hit Kronos in the eye.
‘Owl’ he yelled. For a moment it was only Luke’s voice, full of surprise and
pain. My limbs were freed and I ran straight into Rachel, Nico and Annabeth,
who were standing in the entry hall, their eyes wide with dismay.
‘Luke?’ Annabeth called. ‘What –’
I grabbed her by the shirt and hauled her after me. I ran as fast as I’ve ever
run, straight out of the fortress. We were almost back to the Labyrinth entrance
when I heard the loudest bellow in the world – the voice of Kronos, coming back
into control. ‘AFTER THEM!’
‘No!’ Nico yelled. He clapped his hands together, and a jagged spire of rock
the size of an eighteen-wheeler erupted from the ground right in front of the
fortress. The tremor it caused was so powerful, the front columns of the building
came crashing down. I heard muffled screams from the telkhines inside. Dust
billowed everywhere.
We plunged into the Labyrinth and kept running, the howl of the Titan lord
shaking the entire world behind us.