CHAPTER 5: I Get a New Cabin Mate
Ever come home and found your room messed up? Like some helpful person (hi,
Mom) has tried to ‘clean’ it, and suddenly you can’t find anything? And even if
nothing is missing, you get that creepy feeling like somebody’s been looking
through your private stuff and dusting everything with lemon furniture polish?
That’s kind of the way I felt seeing Camp Half-Blood again.
On the surface, things didn’t look all that different. The Big House was still
there with its blue gabled roof and its wraparound porch. The strawberry fields
still baked in the sun. The same white-columned Greek buildings were scattered
around the valley – the amphitheatre, the combat arena, the dining pavilion
overlooking Long Island Sound. And nestled between the woods and the creek
were the same cabins – a crazy assortment of twelve buildings, each representing
a different Olympian god.
But there was an air of danger now. You could tell something was wrong.
Instead of playing volleyball in the sandpit, counsellors and satyrs were
stockpiling weapons in the tool shed. Dryads armed with bows and arrows talked
nervously at the edge of the woods. The forest looked sickly, the grass in the
meadow was pale yellow, and the fire marks on Half-Blood Hill stood out like
ugly scars.
Somebody had messed with my favourite place in the world, and I was not …
well, a happy camper.
As we made our way to the Big House, I recognized a lot of kids from last
summer. Nobody stopped to talk. Nobody said, ‘Welcome back.’ Some did
double takes when they saw Tyson, but most just walked grimly past and carried
on with their duties – running messages, toting swords to sharpen on the
grinding wheels. The camp felt like a military school. And believe me, I know.
I’ve been kicked out of a couple.
None of that mattered to Tyson. He was absolutely fascinated by everything
he saw. ‘Whasthat!’ he gasped.
‘The stables for pegasi,’ I said. ‘The winged horses.’
‘Whasthat!’
‘Um … those are the toilets.’
‘Whasthat!’
‘The cabins for the campers. If they don’t know who your Olympian parent is,
they put you in the Hermes cabin – that brown one over there – until you’re
determined. Then, once they know, they put you in your dad or mom’s group.’
He looked at me in awe. ‘You … have a cabin?
‘Number three.’ I pointed to a low grey building made of sea stone.
‘You live with friends in the cabin?’
‘No. No, just me.’ I didn’t feel like explaining. The embarrassing truth: I was
the only one who stayed in that cabin because I wasn’t supposed to be alive. The
‘Big Three’ gods – Zeus, Poseidon and Hades – had made a pact after World War
II not to have any more children with mortals. We were more powerful than
regular half-bloods. We were too unpredictable. When we got mad we tended to
cause problems … like World War II, for instance. The ‘Big Three’ pact had only
been broken twice – once when Zeus sired Thalia, once when Poseidon sired me.
Neither of us should’ve been born.
Thalia had got herself turned into a pine tree when she was twelve. Me …
well, I was doing my best not to follow her example. I had nightmares about
what Poseidon might turn me into if I were ever on the verge of death –
plankton, maybe. Or a floating patch of kelp.
When we got to the Big House, we found Chiron in his apartment, listening to
his favourite 1960s lounge music while he packed his saddlebags. I guess I
should mention – Chiron is a centaur. From the waist up he looks like a regular
middle-aged guy with curly brown hair and a scraggly beard. From the waist
down, he’s a white stallion. He can pass for human by compacting his lower half
into a magic wheelchair. In fact, he’d passed himself off as my Latin teacher
during my sixth-grade year. But most of the time, if the ceilings are high enough,
he prefers hanging out in full centaur form.
As soon as we saw him, Tyson froze. ‘Pony!’ he cried in total rapture.
Chiron turned, looking offended. ‘I beg your pardon?’
Annabeth ran up and hugged him. ‘Chiron, what’s happening? You’re not …
leaving?’ Her voice was shaky. Chiron was like a second father to her.
Chiron ruffled her hair and gave her a kindly smile. ‘Hello, child. And Percy,
my goodness. You’ve grown over the year!’
I swallowed. ‘Clarisse said you were … you were…’
‘Fired.’ Chiron’s eyes glinted with dark humour. ‘Ah, well, someone had to
take the blame. Lord Zeus was most upset The tree he’d created from the spirit
of his daughter, poisoned! Mr D had to punish someone.’
‘Besides himself, you mean,’ I growled. Just the thought of the camp director,
Mr D, made me angry.
‘But this is crazy!’ Annabeth cried. ‘Chiron, you couldn’t have had anything
to do with poisoning Thalia’s tree!’
‘Nevertheless,’ Chiron sighed, ‘some in Olympus do not trust me now, under
the circumstances.’
‘What circumstances?’ I asked.
Chiron’s face darkened. He stuffed a Latin–English dictionary into his
saddlebag while the Frank Sinatra music oozed from his boom box.
Tyson was still staring at Chiron in amazement. He whimpered like he wanted
to pat Chiron’s flank but was afraid to come closer. ‘Pony?’
Chiron sniffed. ‘My dear young Cyclops! I am a centaur.’
‘Chiron,’ I said. ‘What about the tree? What happened?’
He shook his head sadly. ‘The poison used on Thalia’s pine is something from
the Underworld, Percy. Some venom even I have never seen. It must have come
from a monster quite deep in the pits of Tartarus.’
‘Then we know who’s responsible. Kro–’
‘Do not invoke the titan lord’s name, Percy. Especially not here, not now.’
‘But last summer he tried to cause a civil war in Olympus! This has to be his
idea. He’d get Luke to do it, that traitor.’
‘Perhaps,’ Chiron said. ‘But I fear I am being held responsible because I did
not prevent it and I cannot cure it. The tree has only a few weeks of life left
unless…’
‘Unless what?’ Annabeth asked.
‘No,’ Chiron said. ‘A foolish thought. The whole valley is feeling the shock of
the poison. The magical borders are deteriorating. The camp itself is dying. Only
one source of magic would be strong enough to reverse the poison, and it was
lost centuries ago.’
‘What is it?’ I asked. ‘We’ll go find it!’
Chiron closed his saddlebag. He pressed the STOP button on his boom box.
Then he turned and rested his hand on my shoulder, looking me straight in the
eyes. ‘Percy, you must promise me that you will not act rashly. I told your
mother I did not want you to come here at all this summer. It’s much too
dangerous. But now that you are here, stay here. Train hard. Learn to fight. But
do not leave.’
‘Why?’ I asked. ‘I want to do something! I can’t just let the borders fail. The
whole camp will be –’
‘Overrun by monsters,’ Chiron said. ‘Yes, I fear so. But you must not let
yourself be baited into hasty action! This could be a trap of the titan lord.
Remember last summer! He almost took your life.’
It was true, but still, I wanted to help so badly. I also wanted to make Kronos
pay. I mean, you’d think the titan lord would’ve learned his lesson aeons ago
when he was overthrown by the gods. You’d think getting chopped into a million
pieces and cast into the darkest part of the Underworld would give him a subtle
clue that nobody wanted him around. But no. Because he was immortal, he was
still alive down there in Tartarus – suffering in eternal pain, hungering to return
and take revenge on Olympus. He couldn’t act on his own, but he was great at
twisting the minds of mortals and even gods to do his dirty work.
The poisoning had to be his doing. Who else would be so low as to attack
Thalia’s tree, the only thing left of a hero who’d given her life to save her
friends?
Annabeth was trying hard not to cry. Chiron brushed a tear from her cheek.
‘Stay with Percy, child,’ he told her. ‘Keep him safe. The prophecy – remember
it!’
‘I-I will.’
‘Um…’ I said. ‘Would this be the super-dangerous prophecy that has me in it,
but the gods have forbidden you to tell me about?’
Nobody answered.
‘Right,’ I muttered. ‘Just checking.’
‘Chiron…’ Annabeth said. ‘You told me the gods made you immortal only so
long as you were needed to train heroes. If they dismiss you from camp –’
‘Swear you will do your best to keep Percy from danger,’ he insisted. ‘Swear
upon the River Styx.’
‘I-I swear it upon the River Styx,’ Annabeth said.
Thunder rumbled outside.
‘Very well,’ Chiron said. He seemed to relax just a little. ‘Perhaps my name
will be cleared and I shall return. Until then, I go to visit my wild kinsmen in the
Everglades. It’s possible they know of some cure for the poisoned tree that I
have forgotten. In any event, I will stay in exile until this matter is resolved …
one way or another.’
Annabeth stifled a sob. Chiron patted her shoulder awkwardly. ‘There, now,
child. I must entrust your safety to Mr D and the new activities director. We must
hope … well, perhaps they won’t destroy the camp quite as quickly as I fear.’
‘Who is this Tantalus guy, anyway?’ I demanded. ‘Where does he get off
taking your job?’
A conch horn blew across the valley. I hadn’t realized how late it was. It was
time for the campers to assemble for dinner.
‘Go,’ Chiron said. ‘You will meet him at the pavilion. I will contact your
mother, Percy, and let her know you’re safe. No doubt she’ll be worried by now.
Just remember my warning! You are in grave danger. Do not think for a moment
that the titan lord has forgotten you!’
With that, he clopped out of the apartment and down the hall, Tyson calling
after him, ‘Pony! Don’t go!’
I realized I’d forgotten to tell Chiron about my dream of Grover. Now it was
too late. The best teacher I’d ever had was gone, maybe for good.
Tyson started bawling almost as bad as Annabeth.
I tried to tell them that things would be okay, but I didn’t believe it.
The sun was setting behind the dining pavilion as the campers came up from
their cabins. We stood in the shadow of a marble column and watched them file
in. Annabeth was still pretty shaken up, but she promised she’d talk to us later.
Then she went off to join her siblings from the Athena cabin – a dozen boys and
girls with blonde hair and grey eyes like hers. Annabeth wasn’t the oldest, but
she’d been at camp more summers than just about anybody. You could tell that
by looking at her camp necklace – one bead for every summer, and Annabeth
had six. No one questioned her right to lead the line.
Next came Clarisse, leading the Ares cabin. She had one arm in a sling and a
nasty-looking gash on her cheek, but otherwise her encounter with the bronze
bulls didn’t seem to have fazed her. Someone had taped a piece of paper to her
back that said, YOU MOO, GIRL! But nobody in her cabin was bothering to tell
her about it.
After the Ares kids came the Hephaestus cabin – six guys led by Charles
Beckendorf, a big fifteen-year-old African American kid. He had hands the size
of catchers’ mitts and a face that was hard and squinty from looking into a
blacksmith’s forge all day. He was nice enough once you got to know him, but
no one ever called him Charlie or Chuck or Charles. Most just called him
Beckendorf. Rumour was he could make anything. Give him a chunk of metal
and he could create a razor-sharp sword or a robotic warrior or a singing
birdbath for your grandmother’s garden. Whatever you wanted.
The other cabins filed in: Demeter, Apollo, Aphrodite, Dionysus. Naiads came
up from the canoe lake. Dryads melted out of the trees. From the meadow came
a dozen satyrs, who reminded me painfully of Grover.
I’d always had a soft spot for the satyrs. When they were at camp, they had to
do all kinds of odd jobs for Mr D, the director, but their most important work
was out in the real world. They were the camp’s seekers. They went undercover
into schools all over the world, looking for potential half-bloods and escorting
them back to camp. That’s how I’d met Grover. He had been the first one to
recognize I was a demigod.
After the satyrs filed in to dinner, the Hermes cabin brought up the rear. They
were always the biggest cabin. Last summer, it had been led by Luke, the guy
who’d fought with Thalia and Annabeth on top of Half-Blood Hill. For a while,
before Poseidon had claimed me, I’d lodged in the Hermes cabin. Luke had
befriended me … and then he’d tried to kill me.
Now the Hermes cabin was led by Travis and Connor Stoll. They weren’t
twins, but they looked so much alike it didn’t matter. I could never remember
which one was older. They were both tall and skinny, with mops of brown hair
that hung in their eyes. They wore orange CAMP HALF-BLOOD T-shirts
untucked over baggy shorts, and they had those elfish features all Hermes’s kids
had: upturned eyebrows, sarcastic smiles, a gleam in their eyes whenever they
looked at you – like they were about to drop a firecracker down your shirt. I’d
always thought it was funny that the god of thieves would have kids with the last
name ‘Stoll’, but the only time I mentioned it to Travis and Connor, they both
stared at me blankly like they didn’t get the joke.
As soon as the last campers had filed in, I led Tyson into the middle of the
pavilion. Conversations faltered. Heads turned. ‘Who invited that? somebody at
the Apollo table murmured.
I glared in their direction, but I couldn’t figure out who’d spoken.
From the head table a familiar voice drawled, ‘Well, well, if it isn’t Peter
Johnson. My millennium is complete.’
I gritted my teeth. ‘Percy Jackson … sir.’
Mr D sipped his Diet Coke. ‘Yes. Well, as you young people say these days,
whatever’.
He was wearing his usual leopard-pattern Hawaiian shirt, walking shorts and
tennis shoes with black socks. With his pudgy belly and his blotchy red face, he
looked like a Las Vegas tourist who’d stayed up too late in the casinos. Behind
him, a nervous-looking satyr was peeling the skins off grapes and handing them
to Mr D one at a time.
Mr D’s real name is Dionysus. The god of wine. Zeus appointed him director
of Camp Half-Blood to dry out for a hundred years – a punishment for chasing
some off-limits wood nymph.
Next to him, where Chiron usually sat (or stood, in centaur form), was
someone I’d never seen before – a pale, horribly thin man in a threadbare orange
prisoner’s jumpsuit. The number over his pocket read 0001. He had blue
shadows under his eyes, dirty fingernails and badly cut grey hair, like his last
haircut had been done with a weed whacker. He stared at me; his eyes made me
nervous. He looked … fractured. Angry and frustrated and hungry all at the
same time.
‘This boy,’ Dionysus told him, ‘you need to watch. Poseidon’s child, you
know.’
‘Ah!’ the prisoner said. ‘That one.’
His tone made it obvious that he and Dionysus had already discussed me at
length.
‘I am Tantalus,’ the prisoner said, smiling coldly. ‘On special assignment here
until, well, until my Lord Dionysus decides otherwise. And you, Perseus
Jackson, I do expect you to refrain from causing any more trouble.’
‘Trouble?’ I demanded.
Dionysus snapped his fingers. A newspaper appeared on the table – the front
page of today’s New York Post. There was my yearbook picture from Meriwether
Prep. It was hard for me to make out the headline, but I had a pretty good guess
what it said. Something like: Thirteen-Year-Old Lunatic Torches Gymnasium.
‘Yes, trouble,’ Tantalus said with satisfaction. ‘You caused plenty of it last
summer, I understand.’
I was too mad to speak. Like it was my fault the gods had almost got into a
civil war?
A satyr inched forward nervously and set a plate of barbecued meat in front of
Tantalus. The new activities director licked his lips. He looked at his empty
goblet and said, ‘Root beer. Barq’s special stock. 1967.’
The glass filled itself with foamy soda. Tantalus stretched out his hand
hesitantly, as if he were afraid the goblet was hot.
‘Go on, then, old fellow,’ Dionysus said, a strange sparkle in his eyes.
‘Perhaps now it will work.’
Tantalus grabbed for the glass, but it scooted away before he could touch it. A
few drops of root beer spilled, and Tantalus tried to dab them up with his fingers,
but the drops rolled away like quicksilver before he could touch them. He
growled and turned towards the plate of meat. He picked up a fork and tried to
stab a piece of brisket, but the plate skittered down the table and flew off the
end, straight into the coals of the brazier.
‘Blast!’ Tantalus muttered.
‘Ah, well,’ Dionysus said, his voice dripping with false sympathy. ‘Perhaps a
few more days. Believe me, old chap, working at this camp will be torture
enough. I’m sure your old curse will fade eventually.’
‘Eventually,’ muttered Tantalus, staring at Dionysus’s Diet Coke. ‘Do you
have any idea how dry one’s throat gets after three thousand years?’
‘You’re that spirit from the Fields of Punishment,’ I said. ‘The one who stands
in the lake with the fruit tree hanging over you, but you can’t eat or drink.’
Tantalus sneered at me. ‘A real scholar, aren’t you, boy?’
‘You must’ve done something really horrible when you were alive,’ I said,
mildly impressed. ‘What was it?’
Tantalus’s eyes narrowed. Behind him, the satyrs were shaking their heads
vigorously, trying to warn me.
‘I’ll be watching you, Percy Jackson,’ Tantalus said. ‘I don’t want any
problems at my camp.’
‘Your camp has problems already … sir.’
‘Oh, go sit down, Johnson,’ Dionysus sighed. ‘I believe that table over there is
yours – the one where no one else ever wants to sit.’
My face was burning, but I knew better than to talk back. Dionysus was an
overgrown brat, but he was an immortal, superpowerful overgrown brat. I said,
‘Come on, Tyson.’
‘Oh, no,’ Tantalus said. ‘The monster stays here. We must decide what to do
with it.’
‘Him’, I snapped. ‘His name is Tyson.’
The new activities director raised an eyebrow.
‘Tyson saved the camp,’ I insisted. ‘He pounded those bronze bulls. Otherwise
they would’ve burned down this whole place.’
‘Yes,’ Tantalus sighed, ‘and what a pity that would’ve been.’
Dionysus snickered.
‘Leave us,’ Tantalus ordered, ‘while we decide this creature’s fate.’
Tyson looked at me with fear in his one big eye, but I knew I couldn’t disobey
a direct order from the camp directors. Not openly, anyway.
‘I’ll be right over here, big guy,’ I promised. ‘Don’t worry. We’ll find you a
good place to sleep tonight.’
Tyson nodded. ‘I believe you. You are my friend.’
Which made me feel a whole lot guiltier.
I trudged over to the Poseidon table and slumped onto the bench. A wood
nymph brought me a plate of Olympian olive-and-pepperoni pizza, but I wasn’t
hungry. I’d been almost killed twice today. I’d managed to end my school year
with a complete disaster. Camp Half-Blood was in serious trouble and Chiron
had told me not to do anything about it.
I didn’t feel very thankful, but I took my dinner, as was customary, up to the
bronze brazier and scraped part of it into the flames.
‘Poseidon,’ I murmured, ‘accept my offering.’
And send me some help while you’re at it, I prayed silently. Please.
The smoke from the burning pizza changed into something fragrant – the
smell of a clean sea breeze with wildflowers mixed in – but I had no idea if that
meant my father was really listening.
I went back to my seat. I didn’t think things could get much worse. But then
Tantalus had one of the satyrs blow the conch horn to get our attention for
announcements.
* * *
‘Yes, well,’ Tantalus said, once the talking had died down. ‘Another fine meal!
Or so I am told.’ As he spoke, he inched his hand towards his refilled dinner
plate, as if maybe the food wouldn’t notice what he was doing, but it did. It shot
away down the table as soon as he got within twenty centimetres.
‘And here on my first day of authority,’ he continued, ‘I’d like to say what a
pleasant form of punishment it is to be here. Over the course of the summer, I
hope to torture, er, interact with each and every one of you children. You all look
good enough to eat.’
Dionysus clapped politely, leading to some half-hearted applause from the
satyrs. Tyson was still standing at the head table, looking uncomfortable, but
every time he tried to scoot out of the limelight, Tantalus pulled him back.
‘And now some changes!’ Tantalus gave the campers a crooked smile. ‘We are
reinstituting the chariot races!’
Murmuring broke out at all the tables – excitement, fear, disbelief.
‘Now I know,’ Tantalus continued, raising his voice, ‘that these races were
discontinued some years ago due to, ah, technical problems.’
‘Three deaths and twenty-six mutilations,’someone at the Apollo table called.
‘Yes, yes!’ Tantalus said. ‘But I know that you will all join me in welcoming
the return of this camp tradition. Golden laurels will go to the winning
charioteers each month. Teams may register in the morning! The first race will
be held in three days’ time. We will release you from most of your regular
activities to prepare your chariots and choose your horses. Oh, and did I
mention, the victorious team’s cabin will have no chores for the month in which
they win?’
An explosion of excited conversation – no KP for a whole month? No stable
cleaning? Was he serious?
Then the last person I expected to object did so.
‘But, sir!’ Clarisse said. She looked nervous, but she stood up to speak from
the Ares table. Some of the campers snickered when they saw the YOU MOO,
GIRL! sign on her back. ‘What about patrol duty? I mean, if we drop everything
to ready our chariots –’
‘Ah, the hero of the day,’ Tantalus exclaimed. ‘Brave Clarisse, who singlehandedly bested the bronze bulls!’
Clarisse blinked, then blushed. ‘Um, I didn’t –’
‘And modest, too.’ Tantalus grinned. ‘Not to worry, my dear! This is a
summer camp. We are here to enjoy ourselves, yes?’
‘But the tree –’
‘And now,’ Tantalus said, as several of Clarisse’s cabin mates pulled her back
into her seat, ‘before we proceed to the campfire and sing-along, one slight
housekeeping issue. Percy Jackson and Annabeth Chase have seen fit, for some
reason, to bring this here.’ Tantalus waved a hand towards Tyson.
Uneasy murmuring spread among the campers. A lot of sideways looks at me.
I wanted to kill Tantalus.
‘Now, of course,’ he said, ‘Cyclopes have a reputation for being bloodthirsty
monsters with a very small brain capacity. Under normal circumstances, I would
release this beast into the woods and have you hunt it down with torches and
pointed sticks. But who knows? Perhaps this Cyclops is not as horrible as most
of its brethren. Until it proves worthy of destruction, we need a place to keep it!
I’ve thought about the stables, but that will make the horses nervous. Hermes’s
cabin, possibly?’
Silence at the Hermes table. Travis and Connor Stoll developed a sudden
interest in the tablecloth. I couldn’t blame them. The Hermes cabin was always
full to bursting. There was no way they could take in a two-metre Cyclops.
‘Come now,’ Tantalus chided. ‘The monster may be able to do some menial
chores. Any suggestions as to where such a beast should be kennelled?’
Suddenly everybody gasped.
Tantalus scooted away from Tyson in surprise. All I could do was stare in
disbelief at the brilliant green light that was about to change my life – a dazzling
holographic image that had appeared above Tyson’s head.
With a sickening twist in my stomach, I remembered what Annabeth had said
about Cyclopes, They’re the children of nature spirits and gods … Well, one god
in particular, usually …
Swirling over Tyson was a glowing green trident – the same symbol that had
appeared above me the day Poseidon had claimed me as his son.
There was a moment of awed silence.
Being claimed was a rare event. Some campers waited in vain for it their
whole lives. When I’d been claimed by Poseidon last summer, everyone had
reverently knelt. But now, they followed Tantalus’s lead, and Tantalus roared
with laughter. ‘Well! I think we know where to put the beast now. By the gods, I
can see the family resemblance!’
Everybody laughed except Annabeth and a few of my other friends.
Tyson didn’t seem to notice. He was too mystified, trying to swat the glowing
trident that was now fading over his head. He was too innocent to understand
how much they were making fun of him, how cruel people were.
But I got it.
I had a new cabin mate. I had a monster for a half-brother.