CHAPTER 20: The Fleece Works Its Magic Too Well
That afternoon was one of the happiest I’d ever spent at camp, which maybe
goes to show, you never know when your world is about to be rocked to pieces.
Grover announced that he’d be able to spend the rest of the summer with us
before resuming his quest for Pan. His bosses at the Council of Cloven Elders
were so impressed that he hadn’t got himself killed and had cleared the way for
future searchers, that they granted him a two-month furlough and a new set of
reed pipes. The only bad news: Grover insisted on playing those pipes all
afternoon long, and his musical skills hadn’t improved much. He played
‘YMCA’, and the strawberry plants started going crazy, wrapping around our
feet like they were trying to strangle us. I guess I couldn’t blame them.
Grover told me he could dissolve the empathy link between us, now that we
were face to face, but I told him I’d just as soon keep it if that was okay with
him. He put down his reed pipes and stared at me. ‘But, if I get in trouble again,
you’ll be in danger, Percy! You could die!’
‘If you get in trouble again, I want to know about it. And I’ll come help you
again, G-man. I wouldn’t have it any other way.’
In the end he agreed not to break the link. He went back to playing ‘YMCA’
for the strawberry plants. I didn’t need an empathy link with the plants to know
how they felt about it.
Later on during archery class, Chiron pulled me aside and told me he’d fixed my
problems with Meriwether Prep. The school no longer blamed me for destroying
their gymnasium. The police were no longer looking for me.
‘How did you manage that?’ I asked.
Chiron’s eyes twinkled. ‘I merely suggested that the mortals had seen
something different on that day – a furnace explosion that was not your fault.’
‘You just said that and they bought it?’
‘I manipulated the Mist. Some day, when you’re ready, I’ll show you how it’s
done.’
‘You mean, I can go back to Meriwether next year?’
Chiron raised his eyebrows. ‘Oh, no, they’ve still expelled you. Your
headmaster, Mr Bonsai, said you had – how did he put it? – un-groovy karma
that disrupted the school’s educational aura. But you’re not in any legal trouble,
which was a relief to your mother. Oh, and speaking of your mother…’
He unclipped his cell phone from his quiver and handed it to me. ‘It’s high
time you called her.’
The worst part was the beginning – the ‘Percy-Jackson-what-were-you-thinkingdo-you-have-any-idea-how-worried-I-was-sneaking-off-to-camp-withoutpermission-going-on-dangerous-quests-and-scaring-me-half-to-death’ part.
But finally she paused to catch her breath. ‘Oh, I’m just glad you’re safe!’
That’s the great thing about my mom. She’s no good at staying angry. She
tries, but it just isn’t in her nature.
‘I’m sorry, Mom,’ I told her. ‘I won’t scare you again.’
‘Don’t promise me that, Percy. You know very well it will only get worse.’
She tried to sound casual about it, but I could tell she was pretty shaken up.
I wanted to say something to make her feel better, but I knew she was right.
Being a half-blood, I would always be doing things that scared her. And, as I got
older, the dangers would just get greater.
‘I could come home for a while,’ I offered.
‘No, no. Stay at camp. Train. Do what you need to do. But you will come
home for the next school year?’
‘Yeah, of course. Uh, if there’s any school that will take me.’
‘Oh, we’ll find something, dear,’ my mother sighed. ‘Some place where they
don’t know us yet.’
As for Tyson, the campers treated him like a hero. I would’ve been happy to
have him as my cabin mate forever, but that evening, as we were sitting on a
sand dune overlooking the Long Island Sound, he made an announcement that
completely took me by surprise.
‘Dream came from Daddy last night,’ he said. ‘He wants me to visit.’
I wondered if he was kidding, but Tyson really didn’t know how to kid.
‘Poseidon sent you a dream message?’
Tyson nodded. ‘Wants me to go underwater for the rest of the summer. Learn
to work at Cyclopes’ forges. He called it an inter – an intern –’
‘An internship?’
‘Yes.’
I let that sink in. I’ll admit, I felt a little jealous. Poseidon had never invited
me underwater. But then I thought, Tyson was going? Just like that?
‘When would you leave?’ I asked.
‘Now.’
‘Now. Like … now now?’
‘Now.’
I stared out at the waves in the Long Island Sound. The water was glistening
red in the sunset.
‘I’m happy for you, big guy,’ I managed. ‘Seriously.’
‘Hard to leave my new brother,’ he said with a tremble in his voice. ‘But I
want to make things. Weapons for the camp. You will need them.’
Unfortunately, I knew he was right. The Fleece hadn’t solved all the camp’s
problems. Luke was still out there, gathering an army aboard the Princess
Andromeda. Kronos was still re-forming in his golden coffin. Eventually, we
would have to fight them.
‘You’ll make the best weapons ever,’ I told Tyson. I held up my watch
proudly. ‘I bet they’ll tell good time, too.’
Tyson sniffled. ‘Brothers help each other.’
‘You’re my brother,’ I said. ‘No doubt about it.’
He patted me on the back so hard he almost knocked me down the sand dune.
Then he wiped a tear from his cheek and stood to go. ‘Use the shield well.’
‘I will, big guy.’
‘Save your life some day.’
The way he said it, so matter-of-fact, I wondered if that Cyclops eye of his
could see into the future.
He headed down to the beach and whistled. Rainbow, the hippocampus, burst
out of the waves. I watched the two of them ride off together into the realm of
Poseidon.
Once they were gone, I looked down at my new wristwatch. I pressed the
button and the shield spiralled out to full size. Hammered into the bronze were
pictures in Ancient Greek style, scenes from our adventures this summer. There
was Annabeth slaying a Laistrygonian dodgeball player, me fighting the bronze
bulls on Half-Blood Hill, Tyson riding Rainbow towards the Princess
Andromeda, the CSS Birmingham blasting its cannons at Charybdis. I ran my
hand across a picture of Tyson battling the Hydra as he held aloft a box of
Monster Doughnuts.
I couldn’t help feeling sad. I knew Tyson would have an awesome time under
the ocean. But I’d miss everything about him – his fascination with horses, the
way he could fix chariots or crumple metal with his bare hands, or tie bad guys
into knots. I’d even miss him snoring like an earthquake in the next bunk all
night.
‘Hey, Percy.’
I turned.
Annabeth and Grover were standing at the top of the sand dune. I guess
maybe I had some sand in my eyes, because I was blinking a lot.
‘Tyson…’ I told them. ‘He had to…’
‘We know,’ Annabeth said softly. ‘Chiron told us.’
‘Cyclopes’ forges.’ Grover shuddered. ‘I hear the cafeteria food there is
terrible! Like, no enchiladas at all.’
Annabeth held out her hand. ‘Come on, Seaweed Brain. Time for dinner.’
We walked back towards the dining pavilion together, just the three of us, like
old times.
A storm raged that night, but it parted around Camp Half-Blood as storms
usually did. Lightning flashed against the horizon, waves pounded the shore, but
not a drop fell in our valley. We were protected again thanks to the Fleece, sealed
inside our magical borders.
Still, my dreams were restless. I heard Kronos taunting me from the depths of
Tartarus: Polyphemus sits blindly in his cave, young hero, believing he has won a
great victory. Are you any less deluded? The titan’s cold laughter filled the
darkness.
Then my dream changed. I was following Tyson to the bottom of the sea, into
the court of Poseidon. It was a radiant hall filled with blue light, the floor
cobbled with pearls. And there, on a throne of coral, sat my father, dressed like a
simple fisherman in khaki shorts and a sun-bleached T-shirt. I looked up into his
tanned, weathered face, his deep green eyes, and he spoke two words: Brace
yourself.
I woke with a start.
There was a banging on the door. Grover flew inside without waiting for
permission. ‘Percy!’ he stammered. ‘Annabeth … on the hill … she…’
The look in his eyes told me something was terribly wrong. Annabeth had
been on guard duty that night, protecting the Fleece. If something had happened
–
I ripped off the covers, my blood like ice water in my veins. I threw on some
clothes while Grover tried to make a complete sentence, but he was too stunned,
too out of breath. ‘She’s lying there … just lying there…’
I ran outside and raced across the central yard, Grover right behind me. Dawn
was just breaking, but the whole camp seemed to be stirring. Word was
spreading. Something huge had happened. A few campers were already making
their way towards the hill, satyrs and nymphs and heroes in a weird mix of
armour and pyjamas.
I heard the clop of horse hooves, and Chiron galloped up behind us, looking
grim.
‘Is it true?’ he asked Grover.
Grover could only nod, his expression dazed.
I tried to ask what was going on, but Chiron grabbed me by the arm and
effortlessly lifted me onto his back. Together we thundered up Half-Blood Hill,
where a small crowd had started to gather.
I expected to see the Fleece missing from the pine tree, but it was still there,
glittering in the first light of dawn. The storm had broken and the sky was bloodred.
‘Curse the Titan Lord,’ Chiron said. ‘He’s tricked us again, given himself
another chance to control the prophecy.’
‘What do you mean?’ I asked.
‘The Fleece,’ he said. ‘The Fleece did its work too well.’
We galloped forward, everyone moving out of our way. There at the base of
the tree, a girl was lying unconscious. Another girl in Greek armour was
kneeling next to her.
Blood roared in my ears. I couldn’t think straight. Annabeth had been
attacked? But why was the Fleece still there?
The tree itself looked perfectly fine, whole and healthy, suffused with the
essence of the Golden Fleece.
‘It healed the tree,’ Chiron said, his voice ragged. ‘And poison was not the
only thing it purged.’
Then I realized Annabeth wasn’t the one lying on the ground. She was the one
in armour, kneeling next to the unconscious girl. When Annabeth saw us, she ran
to Chiron. ‘It … she … just suddenly there…’
Her eyes were streaming with tears, but I still didn’t understand. I was too
freaked out to make sense of it all. I leaped off Chiron’s back and ran towards
the unconscious girl. Chiron said, ‘Percy, wait!’
I knelt by her side. She had short black hair and freckles across her nose. She
was built like a long-distance runner, lithe and strong, and she wore clothes that
were somewhere between punk and Goth – a black T-shirt, black tattered jeans,
and a leather jacket with badges from a bunch of bands I’d never heard of.
She wasn’t a camper. I didn’t recognize her from any of the cabins. And yet I
had the strangest feeling I’d seen her before…
‘It’s true,’ Grover said, panting from his run up the hill. ‘I can’t believe…’
Nobody else came close to the girl.
I put my hand on her forehead. Her skin was cold, but my fingertips tingled as
if they were burning.
‘She needs nectar and ambrosia,’ I said. She was clearly a half-blood, whether
she was a camper or not. I could sense that just from one touch. I didn’t
understand why everyone was acting so scared.
I took her by the shoulders and lifted her into a sitting position, resting her
head on my shoulder.
‘Come on!’ I yelled to the others. ‘What’s wrong with you people? Let’s get
her to the Big House.’
No one moved, not even Chiron. They were all too stunned.
Then the girl took a shaky breath. She coughed and opened her eyes.
Her irises were startlingly blue – electric blue.
The girl stared at me in bewilderment, shivering and wild-eyed. ‘Who –’
‘I’m Percy,’ I said. ‘You’re safe now.’
‘Strangest dream…’
‘It’s okay.’
‘Dying.’
‘No,’ I assured her. ‘You’re okay. What’s your name?’
That’s when I knew. Even before she said it.
The girl’s blue eyes stared into mine, and I understood what the Golden Fleece
quest had been about. The poisoning of the tree. Everything. Kronos had done it
to bring another chess piece into play – another chance to control the prophecy.
Even Chiron, Annabeth and Grover, who should’ve been celebrating this
moment, were too shocked, thinking about what it might mean for the future.
And I was holding someone who was destined to be my best friend, or possibly
my worst enemy.
‘I am Thalia,’ the girl said. ‘Daughter of Zeus.’