CHAPTER 19: The Chariot Race Ends with a Bang
We arrived in Long Island just after Clarisse, thanks to the centaurs’ travel
powers. I rode on Chiron’s back, but we didn’t talk much, especially not about
Kronos. I knew it had been difficult for Chiron to tell me. I didn’t want to push
him with more questions. I mean, I’ve met plenty of embarrassing parents, but
Kronos, the evil titan lord who wanted to destroy Western Civilization? Not the
kind of dad you invited to school for career day.
When we got to camp, the centaurs were anxious to meet Dionysus. They’d
heard he threw some really wild parties, but they were disappointed. The wine
god was in no mood to celebrate as the whole camp gathered at the top of HalfBlood Hill.
The camp had been through a hard two weeks. The arts and crafts cabin had
burned to the ground from an attack by a Draco Aionius (which as near as I
could figure was Latin for ‘really-big-lizard-with-breath-that-blows-stuff-up’).
The Big House’s rooms were overflowing with wounded. The kids in the Apollo
cabin, who were the best healers, had been working overtime performing first
aid. Everybody looked weary and battered as we crowded around Thalia’s tree.
The moment Clarisse draped the Golden Fleece over the lowest bough, the
moonlight seemed to brighten, turning from grey to liquid silver. A cool breeze
rustled in the branches and rippled through the grass, all the way into the valley.
Everything came into sharper focus – the glow of the fireflies down in the
woods, the smell of the strawberry fields, the sound of the waves on the beach.
Gradually, the needles on the pine tree started turning from brown to green.
Everybody cheered. It was happening slowly, but there could be no doubt –
the Fleece’s magic was seeping into the tree, filling it with new power and
expelling the poison.
Chiron ordered a twenty-four/seven guard duty on the hilltop, at least until he
could find an appropriate monster to protect the Fleece. He said he’d place an ad
in Olympus Weekly right away.
In the meantime, Clarisse was carried on her cabin mates’ shoulders down to
the amphitheatre, where she was honoured with a laurel wreath and a lot of
celebrating around the campfire.
Nobody gave Annabeth or me a second look. It was as. if we’d never left. In a
way, I guess that was the best thank-you anyone could give us, because if they
admitted we’d snuck out of camp to do the quest, they’d have to expel us. And,
really, I didn’t want any more attention. It felt good to be just one of the campers
for once.
Later that night, as we were roasting marshmallows and listening to the Stoll
brothers tell us a ghost story about an evil king who was eaten alive by demonic
breakfast pastries, Clarisse shoved me from behind and whispered in my ear,
‘Just because you were cool one time, Jackson, don’t think you’re off the hook
with Ares. I’m still waiting for the right opportunity to pulverize you.’
I gave her a grudging smile.
‘What?’she demanded.
‘Nothing,’ I said. ‘Just good to be home.’
The next morning, after the party ponies headed back to Florida, Chiron made a
surprise announcement: the chariot races would go ahead as scheduled. We’d all
figured they were history now that Tantalus was gone, but completing them did
feel like the right thing to do, especially now that Chiron was back and the camp
was safe.
Tyson wasn’t too keen on the idea of getting back in a chariot after our first
experience, but he was happy to let me team up with Annabeth. I would drive,
Annabeth would defend, and Tyson would act as our pit crew. While I worked
with the horses, Tyson fixed up Athena’s chariot and added a whole bunch of
special modifications.
We spent the next two days training like crazy. Annabeth and I agreed that if
we won, the prize of no chores for the rest of the month would be split between
our two cabins. Since Athena had more campers, they would get most of the
time off, which was fine by me. I didn’t care about the prize. I just wanted to
win.
The night before the race, I stayed late at the stables. I was talking to our
horses, giving them one final brushing, when somebody right behind me said,
‘Fine animals, horses. Wish I’d thought of them.’
A middle-aged guy in a postal carrier outfit was leaning against the stable
door. He was slim, with curly black hair under his white pith helmet, and he had
a mailbag slung over his shoulder.
‘Hermes?’ I stammered.
‘Hello, Percy. Didn’t recognize me without my jogging clothes?’
‘Uh…’ I wasn’t sure whether I was supposed to kneel or buy stamps from him
or what. Then it occurred to me why he must be here. ‘Oh, listen, Lord Hermes,
about Luke…’
The god arched his eyebrows.
‘Uh, we saw him, all right,’ I said, ‘but –’
‘You weren’t able to talk sense into him?’
‘Well, we kind of tried to kill each other in a duel to the death.’
‘I see. You tried the diplomatic approach.’
‘I’m really sorry. I mean, you gave us those awesome gifts and everything.
And I know you wanted Luke to come back. But … he’s turned bad. Really bad.
He said he feels like you abandoned him.’
I waited for Hermes to get angry. I figured he’d turn me into a hamster or
something, and I did not want to spend any more time as a rodent.
Instead, he just sighed. ‘Do you ever feel your father abandoned you, Percy?’
Oh, man.
I wanted to say, ‘Only a few hundred times a day.’ I hadn’t spoken to Poseidon
since last summer. I’d never even been to his underwater palace. And then there
was the whole thing with Tyson – no warning, no explanation. Just boom, you
have a brother. You’d think that deserved a little heads-up phone call or
something.
The more I thought about it, the angrier I got. I realized I did want recognition
for the quest I’d completed, but not from the other campers. I wanted my dad to
say something. To notice me.
Hermes readjusted the mailbag on his shoulder. ‘Percy, the hardest part about
being a god is that you must often act indirectly, especially when it comes to
your own children. If we were to intervene every time our children had a
problem … well, that would only create more problems and more resentment.
But I believe if you give it some thought, you will see that Poseidon has been
paying attention to you. He has answered your prayers. I can only hope that
some day, Luke may realize the same about me. Whether you feel like you
succeeded or not, you reminded Luke who he was. You spoke to him.’
‘I tried to kill him.’
Hermes shrugged. ‘Families are messy. Immortal families are eternally messy.
Sometimes the best we can do is to remind each other that we’re related, for
better or worse … and try to keep the maiming and killing to a minimum.’
It didn’t sound like much of a recipe for the perfect family. Then again, as I
thought about my quest, I realized maybe Hermes was right. Poseidon had sent
the hippocampi to help us. He’d given me powers over the sea that I’d never
known about before. And there was Tyson. Had Poseidon brought us together on
purpose? How many times had Tyson saved my life this summer?
In the distance, the conch horn sounded, signalling curfew.
‘You should get to bed,’ Hermes said. ‘I’ve helped you get into quite enough
trouble this summer already. I really only came to make this delivery.’
‘A delivery?’
‘I am the messenger of the gods, Percy.’ He took an electronic signature pad
from his mailbag and handed it to me. ‘Sign there, please.’
I picked up the stylus before realizing it was entwined with a pair of tiny
green snakes. ‘Ah!’ I dropped the pad.
Ouch, said George.
Really, Percy, Martha scolded. Would you want to be dropped on the floor of a
horse stable?
‘Oh, uh, sorry.’ I didn’t much like touching snakes, but I picked up the pad
and the stylus again. Martha and George wriggled under my fingers, forming a
kind of pencil grip like the ones my special ed teacher made me use in second
grade.
Did you bring me a rat? George asked.
‘No…’ I said. ‘Uh, we didn’t find any.’
What about a guinea pig?
George! Martha chided. Don’t tease the boy.
I signed my name and gave the pad back to Hermes.
In exchange, he handed me a sea-blue envelope.
My fingers trembled. Even before I opened it, I could tell it was from my
father. I could sense his power in the cool blue paper, as if the envelope itself had
been folded out of an ocean wave.
‘Good luck tomorrow,’ Hermes said. ‘Fine team of horses you have there,
though you’ll excuse me if I root for the Hermes cabin.’
And don’t be too discouraged when you read it, dear, Martha told me. He does
have your interests at heart.
‘What do you mean?’ I asked.
Don’t mind her, George said. And next time, remember, snakes work for tips.
‘Enough, you two,’ Hermes said. ‘Goodbye, Percy. For now.’
Small white wings sprouted from his pith helmet. He began to glow, and I
knew enough about the gods to avert my eyes before he revealed his true divine
form. With a brilliant white flash he was gone, and I was alone with the horses.
I stared at the blue envelope in my hands. It was addressed in strong but
elegant handwriting that I’d seen once before, on a package Poseidon had sent
me last summer.
Percy Jackson
c/o Camp Half-Blood
Farm Road 3.141
Long Island, New york 11954
An actual letter from my father. Maybe he would tell me I’d done a good job
getting the Fleece. He’d explain about Tyson, or apologize for not talking to me
sooner. There were so many things that I wanted that letter to say.
I opened the envelope and unfolded the paper.
Two simple words were printed in the middle of the page:
Brace yourself.
The next morning, everybody was buzzing about the chariot race, though they
kept glancing nervously towards the sky like they expected to see Stymphalian
birds gathering. None did. It was a beautiful summer day with blue sky and
plenty of sunshine. The camp had started to look the way it should look: the
meadows were green and lush; the white columns gleamed on the Greek
buildings; dryads played happily in the woods.
And I was miserable. I’d been lying awake all night, thinking about
Poseidon’s warning.
Brace yourself.
I mean, he goes to the trouble of writing a letter, and he writes two words?
Martha the snake had told me not to feel disappointed. Maybe Poseidon had a
reason for being so vague. Maybe he didn’t know exactly what he was warning
me about, but he sensed something big was about to happen – something that
could completely knock me off my feet unless I was prepared. It was hard, but I
tried to turn my thoughts to the race.
As Annabeth and I drove onto the track, I couldn’t help admiring the work
Tyson had done on the Athena chariot. The carriage gleamed with bronze
reinforcements. The wheels were realigned with magical suspension so we
glided along with hardly a bump. The rigging for the horses was so perfectly
balanced that the team turned at the slightest tug of the reins.
Tyson had also made us two javelins, each with three buttons on the shaft. The
first button primed the javelin to explode on impact, releasing razor wire that
would tangle and shred an opponent’s wheels. The second button produced a
blunt (but still very painful) bronze spearhead designed to knock a driver out of
his carriage. The third button brought up a grappling hook that could be used to
lock on to an enemy’s chariot or push it away.
I figured we were in pretty good shape for the race, but Tyson still warned me
to be careful. The other chariot teams had plenty of tricks up their togas.
‘Here,’ he said, just before the race began.
He handed me a wristwatch. There wasn’t anything special about it – just a
white-and-silver clock face, a black leather strap – but as soon as I saw it I
realized that this was what I’d seen him tinkering on all summer.
I didn’t usually like to wear watches. Who cared what time it was? But I
couldn’t say no to Tyson.
‘Thanks, man.’ I put it on and found it was surprisingly light and comfortable.
I could hardly tell I was wearing it.
‘Didn’t finish in time for the trip,’ Tyson mumbled. ‘Sorry, sorry.’
‘Hey, man. No big deal.’
‘If you need protection in race,’ he advised, ‘hit the button.’
‘Ah, okay.’ I didn’t see how keeping time was going to help a whole lot, but I
was touched that Tyson was concerned. I promised him I’d remember the watch.
‘And, hey, um, Tyson…’
He looked at me.
‘I wanted to say, well…’ I tried to figure out how to apologize for getting
embarrassed about him before the quest, for telling everyone he wasn’t my real
brother. It wasn’t easy to find the words.
‘I know what you will tell me,’ Tyson said, looking ashamed. ‘Poseidon did
care for me after all.’
‘Uh, well –’
‘He sent you to help me. Just what I asked for.’
I blinked. ‘You asked Poseidon for … me?’
‘For a friend,’ Tyson said, twisting his shirt in his hands. ‘Young Cyclopes
grow up alone on the streets, learn to make things out of scraps. Learn to
survive.’
‘But that’s so cruel!’
He shook his head earnestly. ‘Makes us appreciate blessings, not be greedy
and mean and fat like Polyphemus. But I got scared. Monsters chased me so
much, clawed me sometimes –’
‘The scars on your back?’
A tear welled in his eye. ‘Sphinx on Seventy-second Street. Big bully. I prayed
to Daddy for help. Soon the people at Meriwether found me. Met you. Biggest
blessing ever. Sorry I said Poseidon was mean. He sent me a brother.’
I stared at the watch that Tyson had made me.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth called. ‘Come on!’
Chiron was at the starting line, ready to blow the conch.
‘Tyson…’ I said.
‘Go,’ Tyson said. ‘You will win!’
‘I – yeah, okay, big guy. We’ll win this one for you.’ I climbed on board the
chariot and got into position just as Chiron blew the starting signal.
The horses knew what to do. We shot down the track so fast I would’ve fallen
out if my arms hadn’t been wrapped in the leather reins. Annabeth held on tight
to the rail. The wheels glided beautifully. We took the first turn a full chariotlength ahead of Clarisse, who was busy trying to fight off a javelin attack from
the Stoll brothers in the Hermes chariot.
‘We’ve got ’em!’ I yelled, but I spoke too soon.
‘Incoming!’ Annabeth yelled. She threw her first javelin in grappling-hook
mode, knocking away a lead-weighted net that would have entangled us both.
Apollo’s chariot had come up on our flank. Before Annabeth could rearm
herself, the Apollo warrior threw a javelin into our right wheel. The javelin
shattered, but not before snapping some of our spokes. Our chariot lurched and
wobbled. I was sure the wheel would collapse altogether, but we somehow kept
going.
I urged the horses to keep up the speed. We were now neck and neck with
Apollo. Hephaestus was coming up close behind. Ares and Hermes were falling
behind, riding side by side as Clarisse went sword-on-javelin with Connor Stoll.
If we took one more hit to our wheel, I knew we would capsize.
‘You’re mine!’ the driver from Apollo yelled. He was a first-year camper. I
didn’t remember his name, but he sure was confident.
‘Yeah, right!’ Annabeth yelled back.
She picked up her second javelin – a real risk considering we still had one full
lap to go – and threw it at the Apollo driver.
Her aim was perfect. The javelin grew a heavy spear point just as it caught the
driver in the chest, knocking him against his teammate and sending them both
toppling out of their chariot in a backwards somersault. The horses felt the reins
go slack and went crazy, riding straight for the crowd. Campers scrambled for
cover as the horses leaped the corner of the stands and the golden chariot flipped
over. The horses galloped back towards their stable, dragging the upside-down
chariot behind them.
I held our own chariot together through the second turn, despite the groaning
of the right wheel. We passed the starting line and thundered into our final lap.
The axle creaked and moaned. The wobbling wheel was making us lose speed,
even though the horses were responding to my every command, running like a
well-oiled machine.
The Hephaestus team was still gaining.
Beckendorf grinned as he pressed a button on his command console. Steel
cables shot out of the front of his mechanical horses, wrapping around our back
rail. Our chariot shuddered as Beckendorf’s winch system started working –
pulling us backwards while Beckendorf pulled himself forward.
Annabeth cursed and drew her knife. She hacked at the cables but they were
too thick.
‘Can’t cut them!’she yelled.
The Hephaestus chariot was now dangerously close, their horses about to
trample us underfoot.
‘Switch with me!’ I told Annabeth. ‘Take the reins!’
‘But –’
‘Trust me!’
She pulled herself to the front and grabbed the reins. I turned, trying hard to
keep my footing, and uncapped Riptide.
I slashed down and the cables snapped like kite string. We lurched forward,
but Beckendorf’s driver just swung his chariot to our left and pulled up next to
us. Beckendorf drew his sword. He slashed at Annabeth and I parried the blade
away.
We were coming up on the last turn. We’d never make it. I needed to disable
the Hephaestus chariot and get it out of the way, but I had to protect Annabeth,
too. Just because Beckendorf was a nice guy didn’t mean he wouldn’t send us
both to the infirmary if we let our guard down.
We were neck and neck now, Clarisse coming up from behind, making up for
lost time.
‘See ya, Percy!’ Beckendorf yelled. ‘Here’s a little parting gift!’
He threw a leather pouch into our chariot. It stuck to the floor immediately
and began billowing green smoke.
‘Greek fire!’ Annabeth yelled.
I cursed. I’d heard stories about what Greek fire could do. I figured we had
maybe ten seconds before it exploded.
‘Get rid of it!’ Annabeth shouted, but I couldn’t. Hephaestus’s chariot was still
alongside, waiting until the last second to make sure their little present blew up.
Beckendorf was keeping me busy with his sword. If I let my guard down long
enough to deal with the Greek fire, Annabeth would get sliced and we’d crash
anyway. I tried to kick the leather pouch away with my foot, but I couldn’t. It
was stuck fast.
Then I remembered the watch.
I didn’t know how it could help, but I managed to punch the stopwatch button.
Instantly, the watch changed. It expanded, the metal rim spiralling outwards like
an old-fashioned camera shutter, a leather strap wrapping around my forearm
until I was holding a round war shield a metre wide, the inside soft leather, the
outside polished bronze engraved with designs I didn’t have time to examine.
All I knew: Tyson had come through. I raised the shield and Beckendorf’s
sword clanged against it. His blade shattered.
‘What?’ he shouted. ‘How –’
He didn’t have time to say more because I knocked him in the chest with my
new shield and sent him flying out of his chariot, tumbling in the dirt.
I was about to use Riptide to slash at the driver when Annabeth yelled,
‘Percy!’
The Greek fire was shooting sparks. I shoved the tip of my sword under the
leather pouch and flipped it up like a spatula. The firebomb dislodged and flew
into the Hephaestus chariot at the driver’s feet. He yelped.
In a split second the driver made the right choice: he dived out of the chariot,
which careened away and exploded in green flames. The metal horses seemed to
short-circuit. They turned and dragged the burning wreckage back towards
Clarisse and the Stoll brothers, who had to swerve to avoid it.
Annabeth pulled the reins for the last turn. I held on, sure we would capsize,
but somehow she brought us through and spurred the horses across the finish
line. The crowd roared.
Once the chariot stopped, our friends mobbed us. They started chanting our
names, but Annabeth yelled over the noise, ‘Hold up! Listen! It wasn’t just us!’
The crowd didn’t want to be quiet, but Annabeth made herself heard: ‘We
couldn’t have done it without somebody else! We couldn’t have won this race or
got the Fleece or saved Grover or anything! We owe our lives to Tyson,
Percy’s…’
‘Brother!’ I said, loud enough for everybody to hear. ‘Tyson, my baby
brother.’
Tyson blushed. The crowd cheered. Annabeth planted a kiss on my cheek. The
roaring got a lot louder after that. The entire Athena cabin lifted me and
Annabeth and Tyson onto their shoulders and carried us towards the winner’s
platform, where Chiron was waiting to bestow the laurel wreaths.