CHAPTER 7: I Accept Gifts from a Stranger
The way Tantalus saw it, the Stymphalian birds had simply been minding their
own business in the woods and would not have attacked if Annabeth, Tyson and
I hadn’t disturbed them with our bad chariot driving.
This was so completely unfair, I told Tantalus to go chase a doughnut, which
didn’t help his mood. He sentenced us to kitchen patrol – scrubbing pots and
platters all afternoon in the underground kitchen with the cleaning harpies. The
harpies washed with lava instead of water, to get that extra-clean sparkle and kill
ninety-nine point nine percent of all germs, so Annabeth and I had to wear
asbestos gloves and aprons.
Tyson didn’t mind. He plunged his bare hands right in and started scrubbing,
but Annabeth and I had to suffer through hours of hot, dangerous work,
especially since there were tons of extra plates. Tantalus had ordered a special
luncheon banquet to celebrate Clarisse’s chariot victory – a full-course meal
featuring country-fried Stymphalian death-bird.
The only good thing about our punishment was that it gave Annabeth and me
a common enemy and lots of time to talk. After listening to my dream about
Grover again, she looked like she might be starting to believe me.
‘If he’s really found it,’she murmured, ‘and if we could retrieve it –’
‘Hold on,’ I said. ‘You act like this … whatever-it-is Grover found is the only
thing in the world that could save the camp. What is it?’
‘I’ll give you a hint. What do you get when you skin a ram?’
‘Messy?’
She sighed. ‘A fleece. The coat of a ram is called a fleece. And if that ram
happens to have golden wool –’
‘The Golden Fleece. Are you serious?’
Annabeth scraped a plateful of death-bird bones into the lava. ‘Percy,
remember the Grey Sisters? They said they knew the location of the thing you
seek. And they mentioned Jason. Three thousand years ago, they told him how to
find the Golden Fleece. You do know the story of Jason and the Argonauts?’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘That old movie with the clay skeletons.’
Annabeth rolled her eyes. ‘Oh my gods, Percy! You are so hopeless.’
‘What?’ I demanded.
‘Just listen. The real story of the Fleece: there were these two children of
Zeus, Cadmus and Europa, okay? They were about to get offered up as human
sacrifices, when they prayed to Zeus to save them. So Zeus sent this magical
flying ram with golden wool, which picked them up in Greece and carried them
all the way to Colchis in Asia Minor. Well, actually it carried Cadmus. Europa
fell off and died along the way, but that’s not important.’
‘It was probably important to her.’
‘The point is, when Cadmus got to Colchis, he sacrificed the golden ram to the
gods and hung the Fleece in a tree in the middle of the kingdom. The Fleece
brought prosperity to the land. Animals stopped getting sick. Plants grew better.
Farmers had bumper crops. Plagues never visited. That’s why Jason wanted the
Fleece. It can revitalize any land where it’s placed. It cures sickness, strengthens
nature, cleans up pollution –’
‘It could cure Thalia’s tree.’
Annabeth nodded. And it would totally strengthen the borders of Camp HalfBlood. But Percy, the Fleece has been missing for centuries. Tons of heroes have
searched for it with no luck.’
‘But Grover found it,’ I said. ‘He went looking for Pan and he found the
Fleece instead because they both radiate nature magic. It makes sense, Annabeth.
We can rescue him and save the camp at the same time. It’s perfect!’
Annabeth hesitated. ‘A little too perfect, don’t you think? What if it’s a trap?’
I remembered last summer, how Kronos had manipulated our quest. He’d
almost fooled us into helping him start a war that would’ve destroyed Western
Civilization.
‘What choice do we have?’ I asked. ‘Are you going to help me rescue Grover
or not?’
She glanced at Tyson, who’d lost interest in our conversation and was happily
making toy boats out of cups and spoons in the lava.
‘Percy,’she said under her breath, ‘we’ll have to fight a Cyclops. Polyphemus,
the worst of the Cyclopes. And there’s only one place his island could be. The
Sea of Monsters.’
‘Where’s that?’
She stared at me like she thought I was playing dumb. ‘The Sea of Monsters.
The same sea Odysseus sailed through, and Jason, and Aeneas and all the
others.’
‘You mean the Mediterranean?’
‘No. Well, yes … but no.’
‘Another straight answer. Thanks.’
‘Look, Percy, the Sea of Monsters is the sea all heroes sail through on their
adventures. It used to be in the Mediterranean, yes. But like everything else, it
shifts locations as the West’s centre of power shifts.’
‘Like Mount Olympus being above the Empire State Building,’ I said. ‘And
Hades being under Los Angeles.’
‘Right.’
‘But a whole sea full of monsters – how could you hide something like that?
Wouldn’t the mortals notice weird things happening … like, ships getting eaten
and stuff?’
‘Of course they notice. They don’t understand, but they know something is
strange about that part of the ocean. The Sea of Monsters is off the east coast of
the U.S. now, just north-east of Florida. The mortals even have a name for it.’
‘The Bermuda Triangle?’
‘Exactly.’
I let that sink in. I guess it wasn’t stranger than anything else I’d learned since
coming to Camp Half-Blood. ‘Okay … so at least we know where to look.’
‘It’s still a huge area, Percy. Searching for one tiny island in monster-infested
waters –’
‘Hey, I’m the son of the sea god. This is my home turf. How hard can it be?’
Annabeth knitted her eyebrows. ‘We’ll have to talk to Tantalus, get approval
for a quest. He’ll say no.’
‘Not if we tell him tonight at the campfire in front of everybody. The whole
camp will hear. They’ll pressure him. He won’t be able to refuse.’
‘Maybe.’ A little bit of hope crept into Annabeth’s voice. ‘We’d better get
these dishes done. Hand me the lava spray gun, will you?’
That night at the campfire, Apollo’s cabin led the sing-along. They tried to get
everybody’s spirits up, but it wasn’t easy after that afternoons bird attack. We all
sat around a semicircle of stone steps, singing half-heartedly and watching the
bonfire blaze while the Apollo guys strummed their guitars and picked their
lyres.
We did all the standard camp numbers: ‘Down by the Aegean’, ‘I Am My
Own Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandpa’, ‘This Land is Minos’s Land’. The
bonfire was enchanted, so the louder you sang, the higher it rose, changing
colour and heat with the mood of the crowd. On a good night, I’d seen it six
metres high, bright purple, and so hot the whole front row’s marshmallows burst
into flames. Tonight, the fire was only a metre high, barely warm, and the flames
were the colour of lint.
Dionysus left early. After suffering through a few songs, he muttered
something about how even pinochle with Chiron had been more exciting than
this. Then he gave Tantalus a distasteful look and headed back towards the Big
House.
When the last song was over, Tantalus said, ‘Well, that was lovely!’
He came forward with a toasted marshmallow on a stick and tried to pluck it
off, real casual-like. But before he could touch it, the marshmallow flew off the
stick. Tantalus made a wild grab, but the marshmallow committed suicide,
diving into the flames.
Tantalus turned back towards us, smiling coldly. ‘Now then! Some
announcements about tomorrow’s schedule.’
‘Sir,’ I said.
Tantalus’s eye twitched. ‘Our kitchen boy has something to say?’
Some of the Ares campers snickered, but I wasn’t going to let anybody
embarrass me into silence. I stood and looked at Annabeth. Thank the gods, she
stood up with me.
I said, ‘We have an idea to save the camp.’
Dead silence, but I could tell I’d got everybody’s interest, because the
campfire flared bright yellow.
‘Indeed,’ Tantalus said blandly. ‘Well, if it has anything to do with chariots –’
‘The Golden Fleece,’ I said. ‘We know where it is.’
The flames burned orange. Before Tantalus could stop me, I blurted out my
dream about Grover and Polyphemus’s island. Annabeth stepped in and
reminded everybody what the Fleece could do. It sounded more convincing
coming from her.
‘The Fleece can save the camp,’she concluded. ‘I’m certain of it.’
‘Nonsense,’said Tantalus. ‘We don’t need saving.’
Everybody stared at him until Tantalus started looking uncomfortable.
‘Besides,’ he added quickly, ‘the Sea of Monsters? That’s hardly an exact
location. You wouldn’t even know where to look.’
‘Yes, I would,’ I said.
Annabeth leaned towards me and whispered, ‘You would?’
I nodded, because Annabeth had jogged something in my memory when she
reminded me about our taxi drive with the Grey Sisters. At the time, the
information they’d given me made no sense. But now …
‘Thirty, thirty-one, seventy-five, twelve,’ I said.
‘Ooo-kay,’ Tantalus said. ‘Thank you for sharing those meaningless numbers.’
‘They’re sailing coordinates,’ I said. ‘Latitude and longitude. I, uh, learned
about it in social studies.’
Even Annabeth looked impressed. ‘Thirty degrees, thirty-one minutes north,
seventy-five degrees, twelve minutes west. He’s right! The Grey Sisters gave us
those coordinates. That’d be somewhere in the Atlantic, off the coast of Florida.
The Sea of Monsters. We need a quest!’
‘Wait just a minute,’ Tantalus said.
But the campers took up the chant. ‘We need a quest! We need a quest!’
The flames rose higher.
‘It isn’t necessary!’ Tantalus insisted.
‘WE NEED A QUEST! WE NEED A QUEST!’
‘Fine!’ Tantalus shouted, his eyes blazing with anger. ‘You brats want me to
assign a quest?’
‘YES!’
‘Very well,’ he agreed. ‘I shall authorize a champion to undertake this perilous
journey, to retrieve the Golden Fleece and bring it back to camp. Or die trying.’
My heart filled with excitement. I wasn’t going to let Tantalus scare me. This
was what I needed to do. I was going to save Grover and the camp. Nothing
would stop me.
‘I will allow our champion to consult the Oracle!’ Tantalus announced. ‘And
choose two companions for the journey. And I think the choice of champions is
obvious.’
Tantalus looked at Annabeth and me as if he wanted to flay us alive. ‘The
champion should be one who has earned the camp’s respect, who has proven
resourceful in the chariot races and courageous in the defence of the camp. You
shall lead this quest … Clarisse!’
The fire flickered a thousand different colours. The Ares cabin started
stomping and cheering, ‘CLARISSE! CLARISSE!’
Clarisse stood up, looking stunned. Then she swallowed, and her chest
swelled with pride. ‘I accept the quest!’
‘Wait!’ I shouted. ‘Grover is my friend. The dream came to me’.
‘Sit down!’ yelled one of the Ares campers. ‘You had your chance last
summer!’
‘Yeah, he just wants to be in the spotlight again!’ another said.
Clarisse glared at me. ‘I accept the quest!’ she repeated. ‘I, Clarisse, daughter
of Ares, will save the camp!’
The Ares campers cheered even louder. Annabeth protested, and the other
Athena campers joined in. Everybody else started taking sides – shouting and
arguing and throwing marshmallows. I thought it was going to turn into a fully
fledged s’more war until Tantalus shouted, ‘Silence, you brats!’
His tone stunned even me.
‘Sit down!’ he ordered. ‘And I will tell you a ghost story.’
I didn’t know what he was up to, but we all moved reluctantly back to our
seats. The evil aura radiating from Tantalus was as strong as any monster I’d
ever faced.
‘Once upon a time there was a mortal king who was beloved of the gods!’
Tantalus put his hand on his chest, and I got the feeling he was talking about
himself.
‘This king,’ he said, ‘was even allowed to feast on Mount Olympus. But when
he tried to take some ambrosia and nectar back to earth to figure out the recipe –
just one little doggy bag, mind you – the gods punished him. They banned him
from their halls forever! His own people mocked him! His children scolded him!
And, oh yes, campers, he had horrible children. Children – just – like – you!’
He pointed a crooked finger at several people in the audience, including me.
‘Do you know what he did to his ungrateful children?’ Tantalus asked softly.
‘Do you know how he paid back the gods for their cruel punishment? He invited
the Olympians to a feast at his palace, just to show there were no hard feelings.
No one noticed that his children were missing. And when he served the gods
dinner, my dear campers, can you guess what was in the stew?’
No one dared answer. The firelight glowed dark blue, reflecting evilly on
Tantalus’s crooked face.
‘Oh, the gods punished him in the afterlife,’ Tantalus croaked. ‘They did
indeed. But he’d had his moment of satisfaction, hadn’t he? His children never
again spoke back to him or questioned his authority. And do you know what?
Rumour has it that the king’s spirit now dwells at this very camp, waiting for a
chance to take revenge on ungrateful, rebellious children. And so … are there
any more complaints, before we send Clarisse off on her quest?’
Silence.
Tantalus nodded at Clarisse. ‘The Oracle, my dear. Go on.’
She shifted uncomfortably, like even she didn’t want glory at the price of
being Tantalus’s pet. ‘Sir –’
‘Go!’ he snarled.
She bowed awkwardly and hurried off towards the Big House.
‘What about you, Percy Jackson?’ Tantalus asked. ‘No comments from our
dishwasher?’
I didn’t say anything. I wasn’t going to give him the satisfaction of punishing
me again.
‘Good,’ Tantalus said. ‘And let me remind everyone – no one leaves this camp
without my permission. Anyone who tries … well, if they survive the attempt,
they will be expelled forever, but it won’t come to that. The harpies will be
enforcing curfew from now on, and they are always hungry! Good night, my
dear campers. Sleep well.’
With a wave of Tantalus’s hand, the fire was extinguished, and the campers
trailed off towards their cabins in the dark.
I couldn’t explain things to Tyson. He knew I was sad. He knew I wanted to go
on a trip and Tantalus wouldn’t let me.
‘You will go anyway?’ he asked.
‘I don’t know,’ I admitted. ‘It would be hard. Very hard.’
‘I will help.’
‘No. I – uh, I couldn’t ask you to do that, big guy. Too dangerous.’
Tyson looked down at the pieces of metal he was assembling in his lap –
springs and gears and tiny wires. Beckendorf had given him some tools and
spare parts, and now Tyson spent every night tinkering, though I wasn’t sure
how his huge hands could handle such delicate little pieces.
‘What are you building?’ I asked.
Tyson didn’t answer. Instead he made a whimpering sound in the back of his
throat. ‘Annabeth doesn’t like Cyclopes. You … don’t want me along?’
‘Oh, that’s not it,’ I said half-heartedly. ‘Annabeth likes you. Really.’
He had tears in the corners of his eye.
I remembered that Grover, like all satyrs, could read human emotions. I
wondered if Cyclopes had the same ability.
Tyson folded up his tinkering project in an oilcloth. He lay down on his bunk
bed and hugged his bundle like a teddy bear. When he turned towards the wall, I
could see the weird scars on his back, like somebody had ploughed over him
with a tractor. I wondered for the millionth time how he’d got hurt.
‘Daddy always cared for m-me,’ he sniffled. ‘Now … I think he was mean to
have a Cyclops boy. I should not have been born.’
‘Don’t talk that way! Poseidon claimed you, didn’t he? So … he must care
about you … a lot…’
My voice trailed off as I thought about all those years Tyson had lived on the
streets of New York in a cardboard refrigerator box. How could Tyson think that
Poseidon had cared for him? What kind of dad let that happen to his kid, even if
his kid was a monster?
‘Tyson … camp will be a good home for you. The others will get used to you.
I promise.’
Tyson sighed. I waited for him to say something. Then I realized he was
already asleep.
I lay back on my bed and tried to close my eyes, but I just couldn’t. I was
afraid I might have another dream about Grover. If the empathy link was real …
if something happened to Grover … would I ever wake up?
The full moon shone through my window. The sound of the surf rumbled in
the distance. I could smell the warm scent of the strawberry fields, and hear the
laughter of the dryads as they chased owls through the forest. But something felt
wrong about the night – the sickness of Thalia’s tree, spreading across the valley.
Could Clarisse save Half-Blood Hill? I thought the odds were better of me
getting a ‘Best Camper’ award from Tantalus.
I got out of bed and pulled on some clothes. I grabbed a beach blanket and a
six-pack of Coke from under my bunk. The Cokes were against the rules. No
outside snacks or drinks were allowed, but if you talked to the right guy in
Hermes’s cabin and paid him a few golden drachmas, he could smuggle in
almost anything from the nearest convenience store.
Sneaking out after curfew was against the rules, too. If I got caught I’d either
get in big trouble or be eaten by the harpies. But I wanted to see the ocean. I
always felt better there. My thoughts were clearer. I left the cabin and headed for
the beach.
* * *
I spread my blanket near the surf and popped open a Coke. For some reason
sugar and caffeine always calmed down my hyperactive brain. I tried to decide
what to do to save the camp, but nothing came to me. I wished Poseidon would
talk to me, give me some advice or something.
The sky was clear and starry. I was checking out the constellations Annabeth
had taught me – Sagittarius, Heracles, Corona Borealis – when somebody said,
‘Beautiful, aren’t they?’
I almost spewed soda.
Standing right next to me was a guy in nylon running shorts and a New York
City Marathon T-shirt. He was slim and fit, with salt-and-pepper hair and a sly
smile. He looked kind of familiar, but I couldn’t figure out why.
My first thought was that he must’ve been taking a midnight jog down the
beach and strayed inside the camp borders. That wasn’t supposed to happen.
Regular mortals couldn’t enter the valley. But maybe with the tree’s magic
weakening he’d managed to slip in. But in the middle of the night? And there
was nothing around except farmland and state preserves. Where would this guy
have jogged from?
‘May I join you?’ he asked. ‘I haven’t sat down in ages.’
Now, I know – a strange guy in the middle of the night. Common sense: I was
supposed to run away, yell for help, etc. But the guy acted so calm about the
whole thing that I found it hard to be afraid.
I said, ‘Uh, sure.’
He smiled. ‘Your hospitality does you credit. Oh, and Coca-Cola! May I?’
He sat at the other end of the blanket, popped a soda and took a drink. ‘Ah …
that hits the spot. Peace and quiet at –’
A cell phone went off in his pocket.
The jogger sighed. He pulled out his phone and my eyes got big, because it
glowed with a bluish light. When he extended the antenna, two creatures began
writhing around it – green snakes, no bigger than earthworms.
The jogger didn’t seem to notice. He checked his LCD screen and cursed.
‘I’ve got to take this. Just a sec…’ Then into the phone, ‘Hello?’
He listened. The mini-snakes writhed up and down the antenna right next to
his ear.
‘Yeah,’ the jogger said. ‘Listen – I know, but … I don’t care if he is chained to
a rock with vultures pecking at his liver, if he doesn’t have a tracking number,
we can’t locate his package … A gift to humankind, great … You know how
many of those we deliver – Oh, never mind. Listen, just refer him to Eris in
customer service. I gotta go.’
He hung up. ‘Sorry. The overnight express business is just booming. Now, as I
was saying –’
‘You have snakes on your phone.’
‘What? Oh, they don’t bite. Say hello, George and Martha.’
Hello, George and Martha, a raspy male voice said inside my head.
Don’t be sarcastic, said a female voice.
Why not? George demanded. I do all the real work.
‘Oh, let’s not go into that again!’ The jogger slipped his phone back into his
pocket. ‘Now, where were we … Ah, yes. Peace and quiet.’
He crossed his ankles and stared up at the stars. ‘Been a long time since I’ve
got to relax. Ever since the telegraph – rush, rush, rush. Do you have a favourite
constellation, Percy?’
I was still kind of wondering about the little green snakes he’d shoved into his
jogging shorts, but I said, ‘Uh, I like Heracles.’
‘Why?’
‘Well … because he had rotten luck. Even worse than mine. It makes me feel
better.’
The jogger chuckled. ‘Not because he was strong and famous and all that?’
‘No.’
‘You’re an interesting young man. And so, what now?’
I knew immediately what he was asking. What did I intend to do about the
Fleece?
Before I could answer, Martha the snake’s muffled voice came from his
pocket, I have Demeter on line two.
‘Not now,’ the jogger said. ‘Tell her to leave a message.’
She’s not going to like that. The last time you put her off, all the flowers in the
floral delivery division wilted.
‘Just tell her I’m in a meeting!’ The jogger rolled his eyes. ‘Sorry again, Percy.
You were saying…’
‘Um … who are you, exactly?’
‘Haven’t you guessed by now, a smart boy like you?’
Show him! Martha pleaded. I haven’t been full-size for months.
Don’t listen to her! George said. She just wants to show off!
The man took out his phone again. ‘Original form, please.’
The phone glowed a brilliant blue. It stretched into a metre-long wooden staff
with dove wings sprouting out the top. George and Martha, now full-sized green
snakes, coiled together around the middle. It was a caduceus, the symbol of
Cabin Eleven.
My throat tightened. I realized who the jogger reminded me of with his elfish
features, the mischievous twinkle in his eyes….
‘You’re Luke’s father,’ I said. ‘Hermes.’
The god pursed his lips. He stuck his caduceus in the sand like an umbrella
pole. ‘ “Luke’s father.” Normally, that’s not the first way people introduce me.
God of thieves, yes. God of messengers and travellers, if they wish to be kind.’
God of thieves works, George said.
Oh, don’t mind George. Martha flicked her tongue at me. He’s just bitter
because Hermes likes me best.
He does not!
Does too!
‘Behave, you two,’ Hermes warned, ‘or I’ll turn you back into a cell phone
and set you on vibrate! Now, Percy, you still haven’t answered my question.
What do you intend to do about the quest?’
‘I – I don’t have permission to go.’
‘No, indeed. Will that stop you?’
‘I want to go. I have to save Grover.’
Hermes smiled. ‘I knew a boy once … oh, younger than you by far. A mere
baby, really.’
Here we go again, George said. Always talking about himself.
Quiet! Martha snapped. Do you want to get set on vibrate?
Hermes ignored them. ‘One night, when this boy’s mother wasn’t watching,
he sneaked out of their cave and stole some cattle that belonged to Apollo.’
‘Did he get blasted to tiny pieces?’ I asked.
‘Hmm … no. Actually, everything turned out quite well. To make up for his
theft, the boy gave Apollo an instrument he’d invented – a lyre. Apollo was so
enchanted with the music that he forgot all about being angry.’
‘So what’s the moral?’
‘The moral?’ Hermes asked. ‘Goodness, you act like it’s a fable. It’s a true
story. Does truth have a moral?’
‘Um…’
‘How about this: stealing is not always bad?’
‘I don’t think my mom would like that moral.’
Rats are delicious, suggested George.
What does that have to do with the story? Martha demanded.
Nothing, George said. But I’m hungry.
‘I’ve got it,’ Hermes said. ‘Young people don’t always do what they’re told,
but if they can pull it off and do something wonderful, sometimes they escape
punishment. How’s that?’
‘You’re saying I should go anyway,’ I said, ‘even without permission.’
Hermes’s eyes twinkled. ‘Martha, may I have the first package, please?’
Martha opened her mouth … and kept opening it until it was as wide as my
arm. She belched out a stainless steel canister – an old-fashioned lunch box flask
with a black plastic top. The sides of the flask were enamelled with red and
yellow Ancient Greek scenes – a hero killing a lion; a hero lifting up Cerberus,
the three-headed dog.
‘That’s Heracles,’ I said. ‘But how –’
‘Never question a gift,’ Hermes chided. ‘This is a collector’s item from
Heracles Busts Heads. The first season.’
‘Heracles Busts Heads?’
‘Great show.’ Hermes sighed. ‘Back before Hephaestus-TV was all reality
programming. Of course, the Flask would be worth much more if I had the
whole lunch box –’
Or if it hadn’t been in Martha’s mouth, George added.
I’ll get you for that. Martha began chasing him around the caduceus.
‘Wait a minute,’ I said. ‘This is a gift?’
‘One of two,’ Hermes said. ‘Go on, pick it up.’
I almost dropped it because it was freezing cold on one side and burning hot
on the other. The weird thing was, when I turned the Flask, the side facing the
ocean – north – was always the cold side…
‘It’s a compass!’ I said.
Hermes looked surprised. ‘Very clever. I never thought of that. But its
intended use is a bit more dramatic. Uncap it, and you will release the winds
from the four corners of the earth to speed you on your way. Not now! And
please, when the time comes, only unscrew the lid a tiny bit. The winds are a bit
like me – always restless. Should all four escape at once … ah, but I’m sure
you’ll be careful. And now my second gift. George?’
She’s touching me, George complained as he and Martha slithered around the
pole.
‘She’s always touching you,’ Hermes said. ‘You’re intertwined. And if you
don’t stop that, you’ll get knotted again!’
The snakes stopped wrestling.
George unhinged his jaw and coughed up a little plastic bottle filled with
chewable vitamins.
‘You’re kidding,’ I said. ‘Are those Minotaur-shaped?’
Hermes picked up the bottle and rattled it. ‘The lemon ones, yes. The grape
ones are Furies, I think. Or are they hydras? At any rate, these are potent. Don’t
take one unless you really, really need it.’
‘How will I know if I really, really need it?’
‘You’ll know, believe me. Nine essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids …
oh, everything you need to feel yourself again.’
He tossed me the bottle.
‘Um, thanks,’ I said. ‘But Lord Hermes, why are you helping me?’
He gave me a melancholy smile. ‘Perhaps because I hope that you can save
many people on this quest, Percy. Not just your friend Grover.’
I stared at him. ‘You don’t mean … Luke?’
Hermes didn’t answer.
‘Look,’ I said. ‘Lord Hermes, I mean, thanks and everything, but you might as
well take back your gifts. Luke can’t be saved. Even if I could find him … he
told me he wanted to tear down Olympus stone by stone. He betrayed everybody
he knew. He – he hates you especially.’
Hermes gazed up at the stars. ‘My dear young cousin, if there’s one thing I’ve
learned over the aeons, it’s that you can’t give up on your family, no matter how
tempting they make it. It doesn’t matter if they hate you, or embarrass you, or
simply don’t appreciate your genius for inventing the internet –’
‘You invented the internet?’
It was my idea, Martha said.
Rats are delicious, George said.
‘It was my idea!’ Hermes said. ‘I mean the internet, not the rats. But that’s not
the point. Percy, do you understand what I’m saying about family?’
‘I – I’m not sure.’
‘You will some day.’ Hermes got up and brushed the sand off his legs. ‘In the
meantime, I must be going.’
You have sixty calls to return, Martha said.
And one thousand and thirty-eight emails, George added. Not counting the
offers for online discount ambrosia.
‘And you, Percy,’ Hermes said, ‘have a shorter deadline than you realize to
complete your quest. Your friends should be coming right about … now.’
I heard Annabeth’s voice calling my name from the sand dunes. Tyson, too,
was shouting from a little bit further away.
‘I hope I packed well for you,’ Hermes said. ‘I do have some experience with
travel.’
He snapped his fingers and three yellow duffel bags appeared at my feet.
‘Waterproof, of course. If you ask nicely, your father should be able to help you
reach the ship.’
‘Ship?’
Hermes pointed. Sure enough, a big cruise ship was cutting across Long
Island Sound, its white-and-gold lights glowing against the dark water.
‘Wait,’ I said. ‘I don’t understand any of this. I haven’t even agreed to go!’
‘I’d make up your mind in the next five minutes, if I were you,’ Hermes
advised. ‘That’s when the harpies will come to eat you. Now, goodnight, cousin,
and dare I say it? May the gods go with you.’
He opened his hand and the caduceus flew into it.
Good luck, Martha told me.
Bring me back a rat, George said.
The caduceus changed into a cell phone and Hermes slipped it into his pocket.
He jogged off down the beach. Twenty paces away, he shimmered and
vanished, leaving me alone with a flask, a bottle of chewable vitamins and five
minutes to make an impossible decision.