CHAPTER 16: We Meet The Dragon Of Eternal Bad Breath
‘We will never make it,’ Zoë said. ‘We are moving too slowly. But we cannot
leave the Ophiotaurus.’
‘Mooo,’ Bessie said. He swam next to me as we jogged along the waterfront.
We’d left the shopping-centre pier far behind. We were heading towards the
Golden Gate Bridge, but it was a lot further than I’d realized. The sun was
already dipping in the west.
‘I don’t get it,’ I said. ‘Why do we have to get there at sunset?’
‘The Hesperides are the nymphs of the sunset,’ Zoë said. ‘We can only enter
their garden as day changes to night.’
‘What happens if we miss it?’
‘Tomorrow is winter solstice. If we miss sunset tonight, we would have to
wait until tomorrow evening. And by then, the Olympian Council will be over.
We must free Lady Artemis tonight.’
Or Annabeth will be dead, I thought, but I didn’t say that.
‘We need a car,’ Thalia said.
‘But what about Bessie?’ I asked.
Grover stopped in his tracks. ‘I’ve got an idea! The Ophiotaurus can appear in
different bodies of water, right?’
‘Well, yeah,’ I said. ‘I mean, he was in Long Island Sound. Then he just
popped into the water at Hoover Dam. And now he’s here.’
‘So maybe we could coax him back to Long Island Sound,’ Grover said. ‘Then
Chiron could help us get him to Olympus.’
‘But he was following me,’ I said. ‘If I’m not there, would he know where he’s
going?’
‘Moo,’ Bessie said forlornly.
‘I… I can show him,’ Grover said. ‘I’ll go with him.’
I stared at him. Grover was no fan of the water. He’d almost drowned last
summer in the Sea of Monsters, and he couldn’t swim very well with his goat
hooves.
‘I’m the only one who can talk to him,’ Grover said. ‘It makes sense.’
He bent down and said something in Bessie’s ear. Bessie shivered, then made
a contented, lowing sound.
‘The blessing of the Wild,’ Grover said. ‘That should help with safe passage.
Percy, pray to your dad, too. See if he will grant us safe passage through the
seas.’
I didn’t understand how they could possibly swim back to Long Island from
California. Then again, monsters didn’t travel the same way as humans. I’d seen
plenty of evidence of that.
I tried to concentrate on the waves, the smell of the ocean, the sound of the
tide.
‘Dad,’ I said. ‘Help us. Get the Ophiotaurus and Grover safely to camp.
Protect them at sea.’
‘A prayer like that needs a sacrifice,’ Thalia said. ‘Something big.’
I thought for a second. Then I took off my coat.
‘Percy,’ Grover said. ‘Are you sure? That lion skin… that’s really helpful.
Hercules used it!’
As soon as he said that, I realized something.
I glanced at Zoë, who was watching me carefully. I realized I did know who
Zoë’s hero had been; the one who’d ruined her life, got her kicked out of her
family and never even mentioned how she’d helped him. Hercules, a hero I’d
admired all my life.
‘If I’m going to survive,’ I said, ‘it won’t be because I’ve got a lion-skin cloak.
I’m not Hercules.’
I threw the coat into the bay. It turned back into a golden lion skin, flashing in
the light. Then, as it began to sink beneath the waves, it seemed to dissolve into
sunlight on the water.
The sea breeze picked up.
Grover took a deep breath. ‘Well, no time to lose.’
He jumped in the water and immediately began to sink. Bessie glided next to
him and let Grover take hold of his neck.
‘Be careful,’ I told them.
‘We will,’ Grover said. ‘Okay, um… Bessie? We’re going to Long Island. It’s
east. Over that way.’
‘Moooo?’ Bessie said.
‘Yes,’ Grover answered. ‘Long Island. It’s this island. And… it’s long. Oh,
let’s just start.’
‘Mooo!’
Bessie lurched forward. He started to submerge and Grover said, ‘I can’t
breathe underwater! Just thought I’d mention –’ Glub!
Under they went, and I hoped my father’s protection would extend to little
things, like breathing.
‘Well, that is one problem addressed,’ Zoë said. ‘But how can we get to my
sisters’ garden?’
‘Thalia’s right,’ I said. ‘We need a car. But there’s nobody to help us here.
Unless we, uh, borrowed one.’
I didn’t like that option. I mean, sure this was a life-or-death situation, but still
it was stealing, and it was bound to get us noticed.
‘Wait,’ Thalia said. She started rifling through her backpack. ‘There is
somebody in San Francisco who can help us. I’ve got the address here
somewhere.’
‘Who?’ I asked.
Thalia pulled out a crumpled piece of notebook paper and held it up.
‘Professor Chase. Annabeth’s dad.’
After hearing Annabeth gripe about her dad for two years, I was expecting him
to have devil horns and fangs. I was not expecting him to be wearing an oldfashioned aviator’s cap and goggles. He looked so weird, with his eyes bugging
out through the glasses, that we all took a step back on the front porch.
‘Hello,’ he said in a friendly voice. ‘Are you delivering my aeroplanes?’
Thalia, Zoë and I looked at each other warily.
‘Um, no, sir,’ I said.
‘Drat,’ he said. ‘I need three more Sopwith Camels.’
‘Right,’ I said, though I had no clue what he was talking about. ‘We’re friends
of Annabeth.’
‘Annabeth?’ He straightened as if I’d just given him an electric shock. ‘Is she
all right? Has something happened?’
None of us answered, but our faces must’ve told him that something was very
wrong. He took off his cap and goggles. He had sandy-coloured hair like
Annabeth and intense brown eyes. He was handsome, I guess, for an older guy,
but it looked like he hadn’t shaved in a couple of days, and his shirt was
buttoned wrong, so one side of his collar stuck up higher than the other side.
‘You’d better come in,’ he said.
It didn’t look like a house they’d just moved into. There were LEGO robots on
the stairs and two cats sleeping on the sofa in the living room. The coffee table
was stacked with magazines, and a little kid’s winter coat was spread on the
floor. The whole house smelled like fresh-baked chocolate-chip cookies. There
was jazz music coming from the kitchen. It seemed like a messy, happy kind of
home – the kind of place that had been lived in forever.
‘Dad!’ a little boy screamed. ‘He’s taking apart my robots!’
‘Bobby,’ Dr Chase called absently, ‘don’t take apart your brother’s robots.’
‘I’m Bobby,’ the little boy protested. ‘He’s Matthew!’
‘Matthew,’ Dr Chase called, ‘don’t take apart your brother’s robots!’
‘Okay, Dad!’
Dr Chase turned to us. ‘We’ll go upstairs to my study. This way.’
‘Honey?’ a woman called. Annabeth’s stepmom appeared in the living room,
wiping her hands on a dish towel. She was a pretty Asian woman with red
highlighted hair tied in a bun.
‘Who are our guests?’she asked.
‘Oh,’ Dr Chase said. ‘This is…’
He stared at us blankly.
‘Frederick,’she chided. ‘You forgot to ask them their names?’
We introduced ourselves a little uneasily, but Mrs Chase seemed really nice.
She asked if we were hungry. We admitted we were, and she told us she’d bring
us some cookies and sandwiches and sodas.
‘Dear,’ Dr Chase said. ‘They came about Annabeth.’
I half expected Mrs Chase to turn into a raving lunatic at the mention of her
stepdaughter, but she just pursed her lips and looked concerned. ‘All right. Go on
up to the study and I’ll bring you some food.’ She smiled at me. ‘Nice meeting
you, Percy. I’ve heard a lot about you.’
Upstairs, we walked into Dr Chase’s study and I said, ‘Whoa!’
The room was wall-to-wall books, but what really caught my attention were
the war toys. There was a huge table with miniature tanks and soldiers fighting
along a blue painted river, with hills and fake trees and stuff. Old-fashioned
biplanes hung on strings from the ceiling, tilted at crazy angles like they were in
the middle of a dogfight.
Dr Chase smiled. ‘Yes. The Third Battle of Ypres. I’m writing a paper, you
see, on the use of Sopwith Camels to strafe enemy lines. I believe they played a
much greater role than they’ve been given credit for.’
He plucked a biplane from its string and swept it across the battlefield, making
aeroplane engine noises as he knocked down little German soldiers.
‘Oh, right,’ I said. I knew Annabeth’s dad was a professor of military history.
She’d never mentioned he played with toy soldiers.
Zoë came over and studied the battlefield. ‘The German lines were further
from the river.’
Dr Chase stared at her. ‘How do you know that?’
‘I was there,’ she said matter-of-factly. ‘Artemis wanted to show us how
horrible war was, the way mortal men fight each other. And how foolish, too.
The battle was a complete waste.’
Dr Chase opened his mouth in shock. ‘You –’
‘She’s a Hunter, sir,’ Thalia said. ‘But that’s not why we’re here. We need –’
‘You saw the Sopwith Camels?’ Dr Chase said. ‘How many were there? What
formations did they fly?’
‘Sir,’ Thalia broke in again. ‘Annabeth is in danger.’
That got his attention. He set the biplane down.
‘Of course,’ he said. ‘Tell me everything.’
It wasn’t easy, but we tried. Meanwhile, the afternoon light was fading
outside. We were running out of time.
When we’d finished, Dr Chase collapsed in his leather recliner. He laced his
hands. ‘My poor brave Annabeth. We must hurry.’
‘Sir, we need transportation to Mount Tamalpais,’ Zoë said. ‘And we need it
immediately.’
‘I’ll drive you. Hmm, it would be faster to fly in my Camel, but it only seats
two.’
‘Whoa, you have an actual biplane?’ I said.
‘Down at Crissy Field,’ Dr Chase said proudly. ‘That’s the reason I had to
move here. My sponsor is a private collector with some of the finest World War I
relics in the world. He let me restore the Sopwith Camel –’
‘Sir,’ Thalia said. ‘Just a car would be great. And it might be better if we went
without you. It’s too dangerous.’
Dr Chase frowned uncomfortably. ‘Now wait a minute, young lady. Annabeth
is my daughter. Dangerous or not, I… I can’t just –’
‘Snacks,’ Mrs Chase announced. She pushed through the door with a tray full
of peanut-butter-and-jam sandwiches and Cokes and cookies fresh out of the
oven, the chocolate chips still gooey. Thalia and I inhaled a few cookies while
Zoë said, ‘I can drive, sir. I’m not as young as I look. I promise not to destroy
your car.’
Mrs Chase knitted her eyebrows. ‘What’s this about?’
‘Annabeth is in danger,’ Dr Chase said. ‘On Mount Tam. I would drive them,
but… apparently it’s no place for mortals.’
It sounded like it was really hard for him to get that last part out.
I waited for Mrs Chase to say no. I mean, what mortal parent would allow
three underage teenagers to borrow their car? To my surprise, Mrs Chase
nodded. ‘Then they’d better get going.’
‘Right!’ Dr Chase jumped up and started patting his pockets. ‘My keys…’
His wife sighed. ‘Frederick, honestly. You’d lose your head if it weren’t
wrapped inside your aviator hat. The keys are hanging on the peg by the front
door.’
‘Right!’ Dr Chase said.
Zoë grabbed a sandwich. ‘Thank you both. We should go. Now.’
We hustled out the door and down the stairs, the Chases right behind us.
‘Percy,’ Mrs Chase called as I was leaving, ‘tell Annabeth… Tell her she still
has a home here, will you? Remind her of that.’
I took one last look at the messy living room, Annabeth’s half-brothers
spilling LEGOs and arguing, the smell of cookies filling the air. Not a bad place,
I thought.
‘I’ll tell her,’ I promised.
We ran out to the yellow VW convertible parked in the driveway. The sun was
going down. I figured we had less than an hour to save Annabeth.
‘Can’t this thing go any faster?’ Thalia demanded.
Zoë glared at her. ‘I cannot control traffic.’
‘You both sound like my mother,’ I said.
‘Shut up!’ they said in unison.
Zoë weaved in and out of traffic on the Golden Gate Bridge. The sun was
sinking on the horizon when we finally got into Marin County and exited the
highway.
The roads were insanely narrow, winding through forests and up the sides of
hills and round the edges of steep ravines. Zoë didn’t slow down at all.
‘Why does everything smell like cough drops?’ I asked.
‘Eucalyptus.’ Zoë pointed to the huge trees all around us.
‘The stuff koala bears eat?’
‘And monsters,’she said. ‘They love chewing the leaves. Especially dragons.’
‘Dragons chew eucalyptus leaves?’
‘Believe me,’ Zoë said, ‘if you had dragon breath, you would chew
eucalyptus, too.’
I didn’t question her, but I did keep my eyes peeled as we drove. Ahead of us
loomed Mount Tamalpais. I guess, in terms of mountains, it was a small one, but
it looked plenty huge as we were driving towards it.
‘So that’s the Mountain of Despair?’ I asked.
‘Yes,’ Zoë said tightly.
‘Why do they call it that?’
She was silent for almost a mile before answering. ‘After the war between the
Titans and the gods, many of the Titans were punished and imprisoned. Kronos
was sliced to pieces and thrown into Tartarus. Kronos’s right-hand man, the
general of his forces, was imprisoned up there, on the summit, just beyond the
Garden of the Hesperides.’
‘The General,’ I said. Clouds seemed to be swirling round its peak, as though
the mountain were drawing them in, spinning them like a top. ‘What’s going on
up there? A storm?’
Zoë didn’t answer. I got the feeling she knew exactly what the clouds meant,
and she didn’t like it.
‘We have to concentrate,’ Thalia said. ‘The Mist is really strong here.’
‘The magical kind or the natural kind?’ I asked.
‘Both.’
The grey clouds swirled even thicker over the mountain, and we kept driving
straight towards them. We were out of the forest now, into wide open spaces of
cliffs and grass and rocks and fog.
I happened to glance down at the ocean as we passed a scenic curve, and I saw
something that made me jump out of my seat.
‘Look!’ But we turned a corner and the ocean disappeared behind the hills.
‘What?’ Thalia asked.
‘A big white ship,’ I said. ‘Docked near the beach. It looked like a cruise ship.’
Her eyes widened. ‘Luke’s ship?’
I wanted to say I wasn’t sure. It might be a coincidence. But I knew better.
The Princess Andromeda, Luke’s demon cruise ship, was docked at that beach.
That’s why he’d sent his ship all the way down to the Panama Canal. It was the
only way to sail it from the East Coast to California.
‘We will have company, then,’ Zoë said grimly. ‘Kronos’s army.’
I was about to answer, when suddenly the hairs on the back of my neck stood
up. Thalia shouted, ‘Stop the car. NOW!’
Zoë must’ve sensed something was wrong, because she slammed on the
brakes without question. The yellow VW spun twice before coming to a stop at
the edge of the cliff.
‘Out!’ Thalia opened the door and pushed me hard. We both rolled onto the
pavement. The next second: BOOOM!
Lightning flashed, and Dr Chase’s Volkswagen erupted like a canary-yellow
grenade. I probably would’ve been killed by shrapnel except for Thalia’s shield,
which appeared over me. I heard a sound like metal rain, and when I opened my
eyes, we were surrounded by wreckage. One of the VW’s doors had impaled
itself in the street. The smoking bonnet was spinning in circles. Pieces of yellow
metal were strewn across the road.
I swallowed the taste of smoke out of my mouth, and looked at Thalia. ‘You
saved my life.’
‘One shall perish by a parent’s hand,’ she muttered. ‘Curse him. He would
destroy me? Me?’
It took me a second to realize she was talking about her dad. ‘Oh, hey, that
couldn’t have been Zeus’s lightning bolt. No way.’
‘Whose, then?’ Thalia demanded.
‘I don’t know. Zoë said Kronos’s name. Maybe he –’
Thalia shook her head, looking angry and stunned. ‘No. That wasn’t it.’
‘Wait,’ I said. ‘Where’s Zoë? Zoë!’
We both got up and ran round the blasted VW. Nothing inside. Nothing either
direction down the road. I looked down the cliff. No sign of her.
‘Zoë!’ I shouted.
Then she was standing right next to me, pulling me by my arm. ‘Silence, fool!
Do you want to wake Ladon?’
‘You mean we’re here?’
‘Very close,’she said. ‘Follow me.’
Sheets of fog were drifting right across the road. Zoë stepped into one of
them, and, when the fog passed, she was no longer there. Thalia and I looked at
each other.
‘Concentrate on Zoë,’ Thalia advised. ‘We are following her. Go straight into
the fog and keep that in mind.’
‘Wait, Thalia. About what happened back on the pier… I mean, with the
manticore and the sacrifice –’
‘I don’t want to talk about it.’
‘You wouldn’t actually have… you know?’
She hesitated. ‘I was just shocked. That’s all.’
‘Zeus didn’t send that lighting bolt at the car. It was Kronos. He’s trying to
manipulate you, make you angry at your dad.’
She took a deep breath. ‘Percy, I know you’re trying to make me feel better.
Thanks. But come on. We need to go.’
She stepped into the fog, into the Mist, and I followed.
When the fog cleared, I was still on the side of the mountain, but the road was
dirt. The grass was thicker. The sunset made a blood-red slash across the sea.
The summit of the mountain seemed closer now, swirling with storm clouds and
raw power. There was only one path to the top, directly in front of us. And it led
through a lush meadow of shadows and flowers: the garden of twilight, just like
I’d seen in my dream.
If it hadn’t been for the enormous dragon, the garden would’ve been the most
beautiful place I’d ever seen. The grass shimmered with silvery evening light,
and the flowers were such brilliant colours they almost glowed in the dark.
Stepping stones of polished black marble led round either side of a five-storeytall apple tree, every bough glittering with golden apples, and I don’t mean
yellow golden apples like in the grocery store. I mean real golden apples. I can’t
describe why they were so appealing, but, as soon as I smelled their fragrance, I
knew that one bite would be the most delicious thing I’d ever tasted.
‘The apples of immortality,’ Thalia said. ‘Hera’s wedding gift from Zeus.’
I wanted to step right up and pluck one, except for the dragon coiled round the
tree.
Now, I don’t know what you think of when I say dragon. Whatever it is, it’s
not scary enough. The serpent’s body was as thick as a booster rocket, glinting
with coppery scales. It had more heads than I could count, as if a hundred deadly
pythons had been fused together. It appeared to be asleep. The heads lay curled
in a big spaghetti-like mound on the grass, all the eyes closed.
Then the shadows in front of us began to move. There was a beautiful, eerie
singing, like voices from the bottom of a well. I reached for Riptide, but Zoë
stopped my hand. Four figures shimmered into existence, four young women
who looked very much like Zoë. They all wore white Greek chitons. Their skin
was like caramel. Silky black hair tumbled loose around their shoulders. It was
strange, but I’d never realized how beautiful Zoë was until I saw her siblings, the
Hesperides. They looked just like Zoë – gorgeous, and probably very dangerous.
‘Sisters,’ Zoë said.
‘We do not see any sister,’ one of the girls said coldly. ‘We see two halfbloods and a Hunter. All of whom shall soon die.’
‘You’ve got it wrong.’ I stepped forward. ‘Nobody is going to die.’
The girls studied me. They had eyes like volcanic rock, glassy and completely
black.
‘Perseus Jackson,’ one of them said.
‘Yes,’ mused another. ‘I do not see why he is a threat.’
‘Who said I was a threat?’
The first Hesperid glanced behind her, towards the top of the mountain. ‘They
fear thee. They are unhappy that this one has not yet killed thee.’
She pointed at Thalia.
‘Tempting sometimes,’ Thalia admitted. ‘But no thanks. He’s my friend.’
‘There are no friends here, daughter of Zeus,’ the girl said. ‘Only enemies. Go
back.’
‘Not without Annabeth,’ Thalia said.
‘And Artemis,’ Zoë said. ‘We must approach the mountain.’
‘You know he will kill thee,’ the girl said. ‘You are no match for him.’
‘Artemis must be freed,’ Zoë insisted. ‘Let us pass.’
The girl shook her head. ‘You have no rights here any more. We have only to
raise our voices and Ladon will wake.’
‘He will not hurt me,’ Zoë said.
‘No? And what about thy so-called friends?’
Then Zoë did the last thing I expected. She shouted, ‘Ladon! Wake!’
The dragon stirred, glittering like a mountain of pennies. The Hesperides
yelped and scattered. The lead girl said to Zoë, ‘Are you mad?’
‘You never had any courage, sister,’ Zoë said. ‘That is thy problem.’
The dragon Ladon was writhing now, a hundred heads whipping around,
tongues flickering and tasting the air. Zoë took a step forward, her arms raised.
‘Zoë, don’t,’ Thalia said. ‘You’re not a Hesperid any more. He’ll kill you.’
‘Ladon is trained to protect the tree,’ Zoë said. ‘Skirt round the edges of the
garden. Go up the mountain. As long as I am a bigger threat, he should ignore
thee.’
‘Should,’ I said. ‘Not exactly reassuring.’
‘It is the only way,’she said. ‘Even the three of us together cannot fight him.’
Ladon opened his mouths. The sound of a hundred heads hissing at once sent
a shiver down my spine, and that was before his breath hit me. The smell was
like acid. It made my eyes burn, my skin crawl and my hair stand on end. I
remembered the time a rat had died inside our apartment wall in New York in the
middle of the summer. This stench was like that, except a hundred times
stronger, and mixed with the smell of chewed eucalyptus. I promised myself
right then that I would never ask a school nurse for another cough drop.
I wanted to draw my sword. But then I remembered my dream of Zoë and
Hercules, and how Hercules had failed in a head-on assault. I decided to trust
Zoë’s judgement.
Thalia went left. I went right. Zoë walked straight towards the monster.
‘It’s me, my little dragon,’ Zoë said. ‘Zoë has come back.’
Ladon shifted forward, then back. Some of the mouths closed. Some kept
hissing. Dragon confusion. Meanwhile, the Hesperides shimmered and turned
into shadows. The voice of the eldest whispered, ‘Fool.’
‘I used to feed thee by hand,’ Zoë continued, speaking in a soothing voice as
she stepped towards the golden tree. ‘Do you still like lamb’s meat?’
The dragon’s eyes glinted.
Thalia and I were about halfway round the garden. Ahead, I could see a single
rocky trail leading up to the black peak of the mountain. The storm swirled
above it, spinning on the summit like it was the axis for the whole world.
We’d almost made it out of the meadow when something went wrong. I felt
the dragon’s mood shift. Maybe Zoë got too close. Maybe the dragon realized he
was hungry. Whatever the reason, he lunged at Zoë.
Two thousand years of training kept her alive. She dodged one set of slashing
fangs and tumbled under another, weaving through the dragon’s heads as she ran
in our direction, gagging from the monster’s horrible breath.
I drew Riptide to help.
‘No!’ Zoë panted. ‘Run!’
The dragon snapped at her side, and Zoë cried out. Thalia uncovered Aegis
and the dragon hissed in pain. In his moment of indecision, Zoë sprinted past us
up the mountain, and we followed.
The dragon didn’t try to pursue. He hissed and stomped the ground, but I
guess he was well trained to guard that tree. He wasn’t going to be lured off,
even by the tasty prospect of eating some heroes.
We ran up the mountain as the Hesperides resumed their song in the shadows
behind us. The music didn’t sound so beautiful to me now – more like the
soundtrack for a funeral.
At the top of the mountain were ruins, blocks of black granite and marble as big
as houses. Broken columns. Statues of bronze that looked as though they’d been
half melted.
‘The ruins of Mount Othrys,’ Thalia whispered in awe.
‘Yes,’ Zoë said. ‘It was not here before. This is bad.’
‘What’s Mount Othrys?’ I asked, feeling like a fool as usual.
‘The mountain fortress of the Titans,’ Zoë said. ‘In the first war, Olympus and
Othrys were the two rival capitals of the world. Othrys was –’ She winced and
held her side.
‘You’re hurt,’ I said. ‘Let me see.’
‘No! It is nothing. I was saying… in the first war, Othrys was blasted to
pieces.’
‘But… how is it here?’
Thalia looked around cautiously as we picked our way through the rubble,
past blocks of marble and broken archways. ‘It moves in the same way that
Olympus moves. It always exists on the edges of civilization. But the fact that it
is here, on this mountain, is not good.’
‘Why?’
‘This is Atlas’s mountain,’ Zoë said. ‘Where he holds –’ She froze. Her voice
was ragged with despair. ‘Where he used to hold up the sky.’
We had reached the summit. A few metres ahead of us, grey clouds swirled in
a heavy vortex, making a funnel cloud that almost touched the mountaintop, but
instead rested on the shoulders of a twelve-year-old girl with auburn hair and a
tattered silvery dress: Artemis, her legs bound to the rock with celestial bronze
chains. This is what I had seen in my dream. It hadn’t been a cavern roof that
Artemis was forced to hold. It was the roof of the world.
‘My lady!’ Zoë rushed forward, but Artemis said, ‘Stop! It is a trap. You must
leave now.’
Her voice was strained. She was drenched in sweat. I had never seen a
goddess in pain before, but the weight of the sky was clearly too much for
Artemis.
Zoë was crying. She ran forward despite Artemis’s protests, and tugged at the
chains.
A booming voice spoke behind us: ‘Ah, how touching.’
We turned. The General was standing there in his brown silk suit. At his side
were Luke and half a dozen dracaenae bearing the golden sarcophagus of
Kronos. Annabeth stood at Luke’s side. She had her hands cuffed behind her
back, a gag in her mouth and Luke was holding the point of his sword to her
throat.
I met her eyes, trying to ask her a thousand questions. There was just one
message she was sending me, though: RUN!
‘Luke,’ Thalia snarled. ‘Let her go.’
Luke’s smile was weak and pale. He looked even worse than he had three
days ago in D.C. ‘That is the General’s decision, Thalia. But it’s good to see you
again.’
Thalia spat at him.
The General chuckled. ‘So much for old friends. And you, Zoë. It’s been a
long time. How is my little traitor? I will enjoy killing you.’
‘Do not respond,’ Artemis groaned. ‘Do not challenge him.’
‘Wait a second,’ I said. ‘You’re Atlas?’
The General glanced at me. ‘So, even the stupidest of heroes can finally figure
something out. Yes, I am Atlas, the general of the Titans and terror of the gods.
Congratulations. I will kill you presently, as soon as I deal with this wretched
girl.’
‘You’re not going to hurt Zoë,’ I said. ‘I won’t let you.’
The General sneered. ‘You have no right to interfere, little hero. This is a
family matter.’
I frowned. ‘A family matter?’
‘Yes,’ Zoë said bleakly. ‘Atlas is my father.’