CHAPTER 6: We Meet The God With Two Faces
We made it thirty metres before we were hopelessly lost.
The tunnel looked nothing like the one Annabeth and I had stumbled into
before. Now it was round like a sewer, constructed of red brick with iron-barred
portholes every three metres. I shone a light through one of the portholes out of
curiosity, but I couldn’t see anything. It opened into infinite darkness. I thought I
heard voices on the other side, but it may have been just the cold wind.
Annabeth tried her best to guide us. She had this idea that we should stick to
the left wall.
‘If we keep one hand on the left wall and follow it,’ she said, ‘we should be
able to find our way out again by reversing course.’
Unfortunately, as soon as she said that, the left wall disappeared. We found
ourselves in the middle of a circular chamber with eight tunnels leading out, and
no idea how we’d got there.
‘Um, which way did we come in?’ Grover said nervously.
‘Just turn around,’ Annabeth said.
We each turned towards a different tunnel. It was ridiculous. None of us could
decide which way led back to camp.
‘Left walls are mean,’ Tyson said. ‘Which way now?’
Annabeth swept her flashlight beam over the archways of the eight tunnels.
As far as I could tell, they were identical. ‘That way,’she said.
‘How do you know?’ I asked.
‘Deductive reasoning.’
‘So… you’re guessing.’
‘Just come on,’she said.
The tunnel she’d chosen narrowed quickly. The walls turned to grey cement,
and the ceiling got so low that pretty soon we were hunching over. Tyson was
forced to crawl.
Grover’s hyperventilating was the loudest noise in the maze. ‘I can’t stand it
any more,’ he whispered. ‘Are we there yet?’
‘We’ve been down here maybe five minutes,’ Annabeth told him.
‘It’s been longer than that,’ Grover insisted. ‘And why would Pan be down
here? This is the opposite of the wild!’
We kept shuffling forward. Just when I was sure the tunnel would get so
narrow it would squish us, it opened into a huge room. I shone my light around
the walls and said, ‘Whoa.’
The whole room was covered in mosaic tiles. The pictures were grimy and
faded, but I could still make out the colours – red, blue, green, gold. The frieze
showed the Olympian gods at a feast. There was my dad, Poseidon, with his
trident, holding out grapes for Dionysus to turn into wine. Zeus was partying
with satyrs, and Hermes was flying through the air on his winged sandals. The
pictures were beautiful, but they weren’t very accurate. I’d seen the gods.
Dionysus was not that handsome, and Hermes’s nose wasn’t that big.
In the middle of the room was a three-tiered fountain. It looked like it hadn’t
held water in a long time.
‘What is this place?’ I muttered. ‘It looks –’
‘Roman,’ Annabeth said. ‘Those mosaics are about two thousand years old.’
‘But how can they be Roman?’ I wasn’t that great on ancient history, but I was
pretty sure the Roman Empire never made it as far as Long Island.
‘The Labyrinth is a patchwork,’ Annabeth said. ‘I told you, it’s always
expanding, adding pieces. It’s the only work of architecture that grows by itself.’
‘You make it sound like it’s alive.’
A groaning noise echoed from the tunnel in front of us.
‘Let’s not talk about it being alive,’ Grover whimpered. ‘Please?’
‘All right,’ Annabeth said. ‘Forward.’
‘Down the hall with the bad sounds?’ Tyson said. Even he looked nervous.
‘Yeah,’ Annabeth said. ‘The architecture is getting older. That’s a good sign.
Daedalus’s workshop would be in the oldest part.’
That made sense. But soon the maze was toying with us – we went fifteen
metres and the tunnel turned back to cement, with brass pipes running down the
sides. The walls were spray-painted with graffiti. A neon tag sign read: moz rulz.
‘I’m thinking this is not Roman,’ I said helpfully.
Annabeth took a deep breath, then forged ahead.
Every few metres the tunnels twisted and turned and branched off. The floor
beneath us changed from cement to mud to bricks and back again. There was no
sense to any of it. We stumbled into a wine cellar – a bunch of dusty bottles in
wooden racks – like we were walking through somebody’s basement, only there
was no exit ahead of us, just more tunnels leading on.
Later the ceiling turned to wooden planks, and I could hear voices above us
and the creaking of footsteps, as if we were walking under some kind of bar. It
was reassuring to hear people, but then again we couldn’t get to them. We were
stuck down here with no way out. Then we found our first skeleton.
He was dressed in white clothes, like some kind of uniform. A wooden crate
of glass bottles sat next to him.
‘A milkman,’ Annabeth said.
‘What?’ I asked.
‘They used to deliver milk.’
‘Yeah, I know what they are, but… that was when my mom was little, like a
million years ago. What’s he doing here?’
‘Some people wander in by mistake,’ Annabeth said. ‘Some come exploring
on purpose and never make it back. A long time ago, the Cretans even sent
people in here as human sacrifices.’
Grover gulped. ‘He’s been down here a long time.’ He pointed to the
skeleton’s bottles, which were coated with white dust. The skeleton’s fingers
were clawing at the brick wall, like he had died trying to get out.
‘Only bones,’ Tyson said. ‘Don’t worry, goat boy. The milkman is dead.’
‘The milkman doesn’t bother me,’ Grover said. ‘It’s the smell. Monsters.
Can’t you smell it?’
Tyson nodded. ‘Lots of monsters. But underground smells like that. Monsters
and dead milk people.’
‘Oh, good,’ Grover whimpered. ‘I thought maybe I was wrong.’
‘We have to get deeper into the maze,’ Annabeth said. ‘There has to be a way
to the centre.’
She led us to the right, then the left, through a corridor of stainless steel like
some kind of air shaft, and we arrived back in the Roman tile room with the
fountain.
This time, we weren’t alone.
What I noticed first were his faces. Both of them. They jutted out from either
side of his head, staring over his shoulders, so his head was much wider than it
should’ve been, kind of like a hammerhead shark’s. Looking straight at him, all I
saw were two overlapping ears and mirror-image sideburns.
He was dressed like a New York City doorman: a long black overcoat, shiny
shoes and a black top hat that somehow managed to stay on his double-wide
head.
‘Well, Annabeth?’said his left face. ‘Hurry up!’
‘Don’t mind him,’ said the right face. ‘He’s terribly rude. Right this way,
miss.’
Annabeth’s jaw dropped. ‘Uh… I don’t…,’
Tyson frowned. ‘That funny man has two faces.’
‘The funny man has ears, you know!’ the left face scolded. ‘Now come along,
miss.’
‘No, no,’ the right face said. ‘This way, miss. Talk to me, please.’
The two-faced man regarded Annabeth as best he could out of the corners of
his eyes. It was impossible to look at him straight on without focusing on one
side or the other. And suddenly I realized that’s what he was asking – he wanted
Annabeth to choose.
Behind him were two exits, blocked by wooden doors with huge iron locks.
They hadn’t been there our first time through the room. The two-faced doorman
held a silver key, which he kept passing from his left hand to his right hand. I
wondered if this were a different room completely, but the frieze of the gods
looked exactly the same.
Behind us, the doorway we’d come through had disappeared, replaced by
more mosaics. We wouldn’t be going back the way we’d come.
‘The exits are closed,’ Annabeth said.
‘Duh!’ the man’s left face said.
‘Where do they lead?’she asked.
‘One probably leads the way you wish to go,’ the right face said
encouragingly. ‘The other leads to certain death.’
‘I – I know who you are,’ Annabeth said.
‘Oh, you’re a smart one!’ the left face sneered. ‘But do you know which way
to choose? I don’t have all day.’
‘Why are you trying to confuse me?’ Annabeth asked.
The right face smiled. ‘You’re in charge now, my dear. All the decisions are
on your shoulders. That’s what you wanted, isn’t it?’
‘I –’
‘We know you, Annabeth,’ the left face said. ‘We know what you wrestle with
every day. We know your indecision. You will have to make your choice sooner
or later. And the choice may kill you.’
I didn’t know what they were talking about, but it sounded like it was about
more than a choice between doors.
The colour drained out of Annabeth’s face. ‘No… I don’t –’
‘Leave her alone,’ I said. ‘Who are you, anyway?’
‘I’m your best friend,’ the right face said.
‘I’m your worst enemy,’ the left face said.
‘I’m Janus,’ both faces said in harmony. ‘God of Doorways. Beginnings.
Endings. Choices.’
‘I’ll see you soon enough, Perseus Jackson,’ said the right face. ‘But for now
it’s Annabeth’s turn.’ He laughed giddily. ‘Such fun!’
‘Shut up!’ his left face said. ‘This is serious. One bad choice can ruin your
whole life. It can kill you and all your friends. But no pressure, Annabeth.
Choose!’
With a sudden chill, I remembered the words of the prophecy: the child of
Athena’s final stand.
‘Don’t do it,’ I said.
‘I’m afraid she has to,’ the right face said cheerfully.
Annabeth moistened her lips. ‘I – I choose –’
Before she could point to a door, a brilliant light flooded the room.
Janus raised his hands to either side of his head to cover his eyes. When the
light died, a woman was standing at the fountain.
She was tall and graceful, with long hair the colour of chocolate, braided in
plaits with gold ribbons. She wore a simple white dress, but when she moved,
the fabric shimmered with colours like oil on water.
‘Janus,’she said. ‘Are we causing trouble again?’
‘N-no, milady!’Janus’s right face stammered.
‘Yes!’ the left face said.
‘Shut up!’ the right face said.
‘Excuse me?’ the woman asked.
‘Not you, milady! I was talking to myself.’
‘I see,’ the lady said. ‘You know very well your visit is premature. The girl’s
time has not yet come. So I give you a choice: leave these heroes to me, or I shall
turn you into a door and break you down.’
‘What kind of door?’ the left face asked.
‘Shut up!’ the right face said.
‘Because French doors are nice,’ the left face mused. ‘Lots of natural light.’
‘Shut up!’ the right face wailed. ‘Not you, milady! Of course I’ll leave. I was
just having a bit of fun. Doing my job. Offering choices.’
‘Causing indecision,’ the woman corrected. ‘Now begone!’
The left face muttered, ‘Party pooper,’ then he raised his silver key, inserted it
into the air and disappeared.
The woman turned towards us, and fear closed around my heart. Her eyes
shone with power. Leave these heroes to me. That didn’t sound good. For a
second, I almost wished we could’ve taken our chances with Janus. But then the
woman smiled.
‘You must be hungry,’she said. ‘Sit with me and talk.’
She waved her hand, and the old Roman fountain began to flow. Jets of clear
water sprayed into the air. A marble table appeared, laden with platters of
sandwiches and pitchers of lemonade.
‘Who… who are you?’ I asked.
‘I am Hera.’ The woman smiled. ‘Queen of Heaven.’
∗ ∗ ∗
I’d seen Hera once before, at a council of the gods, but I hadn’t paid much
attention to her. At the time I’d been surrounded by a bunch of other gods who
were debating whether or not to kill me.
I didn’t remember her looking so normal. Of course, gods are usually seven
metres tall when they’re on Olympus, so that makes them look a lot less normal.
But, now, Hera looked like a regular mom.
She served us sandwiches and poured lemonade.
‘Grover, dear,’she said. ‘Use your napkin. Don’t eat it.’
‘Yes, ma’am,’ Grover said.
‘Tyson, you’re wasting away. Would you like another peanut-butter
sandwich?’
Tyson stifled a belch. ‘Yes, nice lady.’
‘Queen Hera,’ Annabeth said. ‘I can’t believe it. What are you doing in the
Labyrinth?’
Hera smiled. She flicked one finger and Annabeth’s hair combed itself. All the
dirt and grime disappeared from her face.
‘I came to see you, naturally,’ the goddess said.
Grover and I exchanged nervous looks. Usually when gods come looking for
you, it’s not out of the goodness of their hearts. It’s because they want
something.
Still, that didn’t keep me from chowing down on turkey-and-Swiss-cheese
sandwiches and crisps and lemonade. I hadn’t realized how hungry I was. Tyson
was inhaling one peanut-butter sandwich after another, and Grover was loving
the lemonade, crunching the Styrofoam cup like an ice-cream cone.
‘I didn’t think –’ Annabeth faltered. ‘Well, I didn’t think you liked heroes.’
Hera smiled indulgently. ‘Because of that little spat I had with Hercules?
Honestly, I got so much bad press because of one disagreement.’
‘Didn’t you try to kill him, like, a lot of times?’ Annabeth asked.
Hera waved her hand dismissively. ‘Water under the bridge, my dear. Besides,
he was one of my loving husband’s children by another woman. My patience
wore thin, I’ll admit it. But Zeus and I have had some excellent marriage
counselling sessions since then. We’ve aired our feelings and come to an
understanding – especially after that last little incident.’
‘You mean when he sired Thalia?’ I guessed, but immediately wished I hadn’t.
As soon as I said the name of our friend, the half-blood daughter of Zeus, Hera’s
eyes turned towards me frostily.
‘Percy Jackson, isn’t it? One of Poseidon’s… children.’ I got the feeling she
was thinking of another word besides ‘children.’ As I recall, I voted to let you
live at the winter solstice. I hope I voted correctly.’
She turned back to Annabeth with a sunny smile. ‘At any rate, I certainly bear
you no ill will, my girl. I appreciate the difficulty of your quest. Especially when
you have troublemakers like Janus to deal with.’
Annabeth lowered her gaze. ‘Why was he here? He was driving me crazy.’
‘Trying to,’ Hera agreed. ‘You must understand, the minor gods like Janus
have always been frustrated by their small parts to play in the universe. Some, I
fear, have little love for Olympus, and could easily be swayed to support the rise
of my father.’
‘Your father?’ I said. ‘Oh. Right.’
I’d forgotten that Kronos was Hera’s dad, too, along with Zeus, Poseidon and
all the eldest Olympians. I guess that made Kronos my grandfather, but that
thought was so weird I put it out of my mind.
‘We must watch the minor gods,’ Hera said. ‘Janus. Hecate. Morpheus. They
give lip service to Olympus, and yet –’
‘That’s where Dionysus went,’ I remembered. ‘He was checking on the minor
gods.’
‘Indeed.’ Hera stared at the fading mosaics of the Olympians. ‘You see, in
times of trouble, even gods can lose faith. They start putting their trust in the
wrong things, petty things. They stop looking at the big picture and start being
selfish. But I’m the goddess of marriage, you see. I’m used to perseverance. You
have to rise above the squabbling and chaos and keep believing. You have to
always keep your goals in mind.’
‘What are your goals?’ Annabeth asked.
She smiled. ‘To keep my family, the Olympians, together, of course. At the
moment, the best way I can do that is by helping you. Zeus does not allow me to
interfere much, I am afraid. But once every century or so, for a quest I care
deeply about, he allows me to grant a wish.’
‘A wish?’
‘Before you ask it, let me give you some advice, which I can do for free. I
know you seek Daedalus. His Labyrinth is as much a mystery to me as it is to
you. But if you want to know his fate, I would visit my son Hephaestus at his
forge. Daedalus was a great inventor, a mortal after Hephaestus’s heart. There
has never been a mortal Hephaestus admired more. If anyone would have kept
up with Daedalus and could tell you his fate, it is Hephaestus.’
‘But how do we get there?’ Annabeth asked. ‘That’s my wish. I want a way to
navigate the Labyrinth.’
Hera looked disappointed. ‘So be it. You wish for something, however, that
you have already been given.’
‘I don’t understand.’
‘The means is already within your grasp.’ She looked at me. ‘Percy knows the
answer.’
‘I do?’
‘But that’s not fair,’ Annabeth said. ‘You’re not telling us what it is!’
Hera shook her head. ‘Getting something and having the wits to use it… those
are two different things. I’m sure your mother, Athena, would agree.’
The room rumbled like distant thunder. Hera stood. ‘That would be my cue.
Zeus grows impatient. Think on what I have said, Annabeth. Seek out
Hephaestus. You will have to pass through the ranch, I imagine. But keep going.
And use all the means at your disposal, however common they may seem.’
She pointed towards the two doors and they melted away, revealing twin
corridors, open and dark. ‘One last thing, Annabeth. I have postponed your day
of choice. I have not prevented it. Soon, as Janus said, you will have to make a
decision. Farewell!’
She waved a hand and turned into white smoke. So did the food, just as Tyson
chomped down on a sandwich that turned to mist in his mouth. The fountain
trickled to a stop. The mosaic walls dimmed and turned grungy and faded again.
The room was no longer any place you’d want to have a picnic.
Annabeth stamped her foot. ‘What sort of help was that? “Here, have a
sandwich. Make a wish. Oops, I can’t help you!” Poof!’
‘Poof,’ Tyson agreed sadly, looking at his empty plate.
‘Well,’ Grover sighed, ‘she said Percy knows the answer. That’s something.’
They all looked at me.
‘But I don’t,’ I said. ‘I don’t know what she was talking about.’
Annabeth sighed. ‘All right. Then we’ll just keep going.’
‘Which way?’ I asked. I really wanted to ask what Hera had meant – about the
choice Annabeth needed to make. But then Grover and Tyson both tensed. They
stood up together, like they’d rehearsed it. ‘Left,’ they both said.
Annabeth frowned. ‘How can you be sure?’
‘Because something is coming from the right,’ Grover said.
‘Something big,’ Tyson agreed. ‘In a hurry.’
‘Left is sounding pretty good,’ I decided. Together we plunged into the dark
corridor.