CHAPTER 10: I Ruin a Perfectly Good Bus
It didn’t take me long to pack. I decided to leave the Minotaur horn in my cabin,
which left me only an extra change of clothes and a toothbrush to stuff in a
backpack Grover had found for me.
The camp store loaned me one hundred dollars in mortal money and twenty
golden drachmas. These coins were as big as Girl Scout cookies and had images
of various Greek gods stamped on one side and the Empire State Building on the
other. The ancient mortal drachmas had been silver, Chiron told us, but
Olympians never used less than pure gold. Chiron said the coins might come in
handy for nonmortal transactions – whatever that meant. He gave Annabeth and
me each a flask of nectar and an airtight bag full of ambrosia squares, to be used
only in emergencies, if we were seriously hurt. It was god food, Chiron
reminded us. It would cure us of almost any injury, but it was lethal to mortals.
Too much of it would make a half-blood very, very feverish. An overdose would
burn us up, literally.
Annabeth was bringing her magic Yankees cap, which she told me had been a
twelfth-birthday present from her mom. She carried a book on famous classical
architecture, written in Ancient Greek, to read when she got bored, and a long
bronze knife, hidden in her shirt sleeve. I was sure the knife would get us busted
the first time we went through a metal detector.
Grover wore his fake feet and his trousers to pass as human. He wore a green
rasta-style cap, because when it rained his curly hair flattened and you could just
see the tips of his horns. His bright orange backpack was full of scrap metal and
apples to snack on. In his pocket was a set of reed pipes his daddy goat had
carved for him, even though he only knew two songs: Mozart’s Piano Concerto
no. 12 and Hilary Duff’s ‘So Yesterday’, both of which sounded pretty bad on
reed pipes.
We waved goodbye to the other campers, took one last look at the strawberry
fields, the ocean and the Big House, then hiked up Half-Blood Hill to the tall
pine tree that used to be Thalia, daughter of Zeus.
Chiron was waiting for us in his wheelchair. Next to him stood the surfer dude
I’d seen when I was recovering in the sick room. According to Grover, the guy
was the camp’s head of security. He supposedly had eyes all over his body so he
could never be surprised. Today, though, he was wearing a chauffeur’s uniform,
so I could only see extra peepers on his hands, face and neck.
‘This is Argus,’ Chiron told me. ‘He will drive you into the city, and, er, well,
keep an eye on things.’
I heard footsteps behind us.
Luke came running up the hill, carrying a pair of basketball shoes.
‘Hey!’ he panted. ‘Glad I caught you.’
Annabeth blushed, the way she always did when Luke was around.
‘Just wanted to say good luck,’ Luke told me. ‘And I thought… um, maybe
you could use these.’
He handed me the sneakers, which looked pretty normal. They even smelled
kind of normal.
Luke said, ‘Maia!’
White bird’s wings sprouted out of the heels, startling me so much, I dropped
them. The shoes flapped around on the ground until the wings folded up and
disappeared.
‘Awesome!’ Grover said.
Luke smiled. ‘Those served me well when I was on my quest. Gift from Dad.
Of course, I don’t use them much these days…’ His expression turned sad.
I didn’t know what to say. It was cool enough that Luke had come to say
goodbye. I’d been afraid he might resent me for getting so much attention the
last few days. But here he was giving me a magic gift… It made me blush
almost as much as Annabeth.
‘Hey, man,’ I said. ‘Thanks.’
‘Listen, Percy…’ Luke looked uncomfortable. ‘A lot of hopes are riding on
you. So just… kill some monsters for me, okay?’
We shook hands. Luke patted Grover’s head between his horns, then gave a
goodbye hug to Annabeth, who looked like she might pass out.
After Luke was gone, I told her, ‘You’re hyperventilating.’
‘Am not.’
‘You let him capture the flag instead of you, didn’t you?’
‘Oh… why do I want to go anywhere with you, Percy?’
She stomped down the other side of the hill, where a white SUV waited on the
shoulder of the road. Argus followed, jingling his car keys.
I picked up the flying shoes and had a sudden bad feeling. I looked at Chiron.
‘I won’t be able to use these, will I?’
He shook his head. ‘Luke meant well, Percy. But taking to the air… that
would not be wise for you.’
I nodded, disappointed, but then I got an idea. ‘Hey, Grover. You want a
magic item?’
His eyes lit up. ‘Me?’
Pretty soon we’d laced the sneakers over his fake feet, and the world’s first
flying goat boy was ready for launch.
‘Maia!’ he shouted.
He got off the ground okay, but then fell over sideways so his backpack
dragged through the grass. The winged shoes kept bucking up and down like tiny
broncos.
‘Practice,’ Chiron called after him. ‘You just need practice!’
‘Aaaaa!’ Grover went flying sideways down the hill like a possessed lawn
mower, heading towards the van.
Before I could follow, Chiron caught my arm. ‘I should have trained you
better, Percy,’ he said. ‘If only I had more time. Hercules, Jason – they all got
more training.’
‘That’s okay. I just wish –’
I stopped myself because I was about to sound like a brat. I was wishing my
dad had given me a cool magic item to help on the quest, something as good as
Luke’s flying shoes, or Annabeth’s invisible cap.
‘What am I thinking?’ Chiron cried. ‘I can’t let you get away without this.’
He pulled a pen from his coat pocket and handed it to me. It was an ordinary
disposable ballpoint, black ink, removable cap. Probably cost thirty cents.
‘Gee,’ I said. ‘Thanks.’
‘Percy, that’s a gift from your father. I’ve kept it for years, not knowing you
were who I was waiting for. But the prophecy is clear to me now. You are the
one.’
I remembered the field trip to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, when I’d
vaporized Mrs Dodds. Chiron had thrown me a pen that turned into a sword.
Could this be…?
I took off the cap, and the pen grew longer and heavier in my hand. In half a
second, I held a shimmering bronze sword with a double-edged blade, a leatherwrapped grip and a flat hilt riveted with gold studs. It was the first weapon that
actually felt balanced in my hand.
‘The sword has a long and tragic history that we need not go into,’ Chiron told
me. ‘Its name is Anaklusmos.’
‘“Riptide”,’ I translated, surprised the Ancient Greek came so easily.
‘Use it only for emergencies,’ Chiron said, ‘and only against monsters. No
hero should harm mortals unless absolutely necessary, of course, but this sword
wouldn’t harm them in any case.’
I looked at the wickedly sharp blade. ‘What do you mean it wouldn’t harm
mortals? How could it not?’
‘The sword is celestial bronze. Forged by the Cyclopes, tempered in the heart
of Mount Etna, cooled in the River Lethe. It’s deadly to monsters, to any
creature from the Underworld, provided they don’t kill you first. But the blade
will pass through mortals like an illusion. They simply are not important enough
for the blade to kill. And I should warn you: as a demigod, you can be killed by
either celestial or normal weapons. You are twice as vulnerable.’
‘Good to know.’
‘Now recap the pen.’
I touched the pen cap to the sword tip and instantly Riptide shrank to a
ballpoint pen again. I tucked it in my pocket, a little nervous, because I was
famous for losing pens at school.
‘You can’t,’ Chiron said.
‘Can’t what?’
‘Lose the pen,’ he said. ‘It is enchanted. It will always reappear in your
pocket. Try it.’
I was wary, but I threw the pen as far as I could down the hill and watched it
disappear in the grass.
‘It may take a few moments,’ Chiron told me. ‘Now check your pocket.’
Sure enough, the pen was there.
‘Okay, that’s extremely cool,’ I admitted. ‘But what if a mortal sees me pulling
out a sword?’
Chiron smiled. ‘Mist is a powerful thing, Percy.’
‘Mist?’
‘Yes. Read The Iliad. It’s full of references to the stuff. Whenever divine or
monstrous elements mix with the mortal world, they generate Mist, which
obscures the vision of humans. You will see things just as they are, being a halfblood, but humans will interpret things quite differently. Remarkable, really, the
lengths to which humans will go to fit things into their version of reality.’
I put Riptide back in my pocket.
For the first time, the quest felt real. I was actually leaving Half-Blood Hill. I
was heading west with no adult supervision, no backup plan, not even a cell
phone. (Chiron said cell phones were traceable by monsters; if we used one, it
would be worse than sending up a flare.) I had no weapon stronger than a sword
to fight off monsters and reach the Land of the Dead.
‘Chiron…’ I said. ‘When you say the gods are immortal… I mean, there was a
time before them, right?’
‘Four ages before them, actually. The Time of the Titans was the Fourth Age,
sometimes called the Golden Age, which is definitely a misnomer. This, the time
of Western civilization and the rule of Zeus, is the Fifth Age’.
‘So what was it like… before the gods?’
Chiron pursed his lips. ‘Even I am not old enough to remember that, child, but
I know it was a time of darkness and savagery for mortals. Kronos, the lord of
the Titans, called his reign the Golden Age because men lived innocent and free
of all knowledge. But that was mere propaganda. The Titan king cared nothing
for your kind except as appetizers or a source of cheap entertainment. It was
only in the early reign of Lord Zeus, when Prometheus the good Titan brought
fire to mankind, that your species began to progress, and even then Prometheus
was branded a radical thinker. Zeus punished him severely, as you may recall. Of
course, eventually the gods warmed to humans, and Western civilization was
born.’
‘But the gods can’t die now, right? I mean, as long as Western civilization is
alive, they’re alive. So… even if I failed, nothing could happen so bad it would
mess up everything, right?’
Chiron gave me a melancholy smile. ‘No one knows how long the Age of the
West will last, Percy. The gods are immortal, yes. But then, so were the Titans.
They still exist, locked away in their various prisons, forced to endure endless
pain and punishment, reduced in power, but still very much alive. May the Fates
forbid that the gods should ever suffer such a doom, or that we should ever
return to the darkness and chaos of the past. All we can do, child, is follow our
destiny.’
‘Our destiny… assuming we know what that is.’
‘Relax,’ Chiron told me. ‘Keep a clear head. And remember, you may be
about to prevent the biggest war in human history.’
‘Relax,’ I said. ‘I’m very relaxed.’
When I got to the bottom of the hill, I looked back. Under the pine tree that
used to be Thalia, daughter of Zeus, Chiron was now standing in full horse-man
form, holding his bow high in salute. Just your typical summer-camp send-off by
your typical centaur.
* * *
Argus drove us out of the countryside and into western Long Island. It felt weird
to be on a highway again, Annabeth and Grover sitting next to me as if we were
normal carpoolers. After two weeks at Half-Blood Hill, the real world seemed
like a fantasy. I found myself staring at every McDonald’s, every kid in the back
of his parents’ car, every billboard and shopping mall.
‘So far so good,’ I told Annabeth. ‘Ten miles and not a single monster.’
She gave me an irritated look. ‘It’s bad luck to talk that way, seaweed brain.’
‘Remind me again – why do you hate me so much?’
‘I don’t hate you.’
‘Could’ve fooled me.’
She folded her cap of invisibility. ‘Look… we’re just not supposed to get
along, okay? Our parents are rivals.’
‘Why?’
She sighed. ‘How many reasons do you want? One time my mom caught
Poseidon with his girlfriend in Athena’s temple, which is hugely disrespectful.
Another time, Athena and Poseidon competed to be the patron god for the city of
Athens. Your dad created some stupid saltwater spring for his gift. My mom
created the olive tree. The people saw that her gift was better, so they named the
city after her.’
‘They must really like olives.’
‘Oh, forget it.’
‘Now, if she’d invented pizza – that I could understand.’
‘I said, forget it!’
In the front seat, Argus smiled. He didn’t say anything, but one blue eye on
the back of his neck winked at me.
Traffic slowed us down in Queens. By the time we got into Manhattan it was
sunset and starting to rain.
Argus dropped us at the Greyhound Station on the Upper East Side, not far
from my mom and Gabe’s apartment. Taped to a mailbox was a soggy flyer with
my picture on it: HAVE YOU SEEN THIS BOY?
I ripped it down before Annabeth and Grover could notice.
Argus unloaded our bags, made sure we got our bus tickets, then drove away,
the eye on the back of his hand opening to watch us as he pulled out of the
parking lot.
I thought about how close I was to my old apartment. On a normal day, my
mom would be home from the candy store by now. Smelly Gabe was probably
up there right now, playing poker, not even missing her.
Grover shouldered his backpack. He gazed down the street in the direction I
was looking. ‘You want to know why she married him, Percy?’
I stared at him. ‘Were you reading my mind or something?’
‘Just your emotions.’ He shrugged. ‘Guess I forgot to tell you satyrs can do
that. You were thinking about your mom and your stepdad, right?’
I nodded, wondering what else Grover might’ve forgotten to tell me.
‘Your mom married Gabe for you,’ Grover told me. ‘You call him “Smelly”,
but you’ve got no idea. The guy has this aura… Yuck. I can smell him from here.
I can smell traces of him on you, and you haven’t been near him for a fortnight.’
‘Thanks,’ I said. ‘Where’s the nearest shower?’
‘You should be grateful, Percy. Your stepfather smells so repulsively human
he could mask the presence of any demigod. As soon as I took a whiff inside his
Camaro, I knew: Gabe has been covering your scent for years. If you hadn’t
lived with him every summer, you probably would’ve been found by monsters a
long time ago. Your mom stayed with him to protect you. She was a smart lady.
She must’ve loved you a lot to put up with that guy – if that makes you feel any
better.’
It didn’t, but I forced myself not to show it. I’ll see her again, I thought. She
isn’t gone.
I wondered if Grover could still read my emotions, mixed up as they were. I
was glad he and Annabeth were with me, but I felt guilty that I hadn’t been
straight with them. I hadn’t told them the real reason I’d said yes to this crazy
quest.
The truth was, I didn’t care about retrieving Zeus’s lightning bolt, or saving
the world, or even helping my father out of trouble. The more I thought about it,
I resented Poseidon for never visiting me, never helping my mom, never even
sending a lousy child-support cheque. He’d only claimed me because he needed
a job done.
All I cared about was my mom. Hades had taken her unfairly, and Hades was
going to give her back.
You will be betrayed by one who calls you a friend, the Oracle whispered in
my mind. You will fail to save what matters most in the end.
Shut up, I told it.
The rain kept coming down.
We got restless waiting for the bus and decided to play some Hacky Sack with
one of Grover’s apples. Annabeth was unbelievable. She could bounce the apple
off her knee, her elbow, her shoulder, whatever. I wasn’t too bad myself.
The game ended when I tossed the apple towards Grover and it got too close
to his mouth. In one mega goat bite, our Hacky Sack disappeared – core, stem
and all.
Grover blushed. He tried to apologize, but Annabeth and I were too busy
cracking up.
Finally the bus came. As we stood in line to board, Grover started looking
around, sniffing the air like he smelled his favourite school cafeteria delicacy –
enchiladas.
‘What is it?’ I asked.
‘I don’t know,’ he said tensely. ‘Maybe it’s nothing.’
But I could tell it wasn’t nothing. I started looking over my shoulder, too.
I was relieved when we finally got on board and found seats together in the
back of the bus. We stowed our backpacks. Annabeth kept slapping her Yankees
cap nervously against her thigh.
As the last passengers got on, Annabeth clamped her hand onto my knee.
‘Percy.’
An old lady had just boarded the bus. She wore a crumpled velvet dress, lace
gloves and a shapeless orange-knit hat that shadowed her face, and she carried a
big paisley purse. When she tilted her head up, her black eyes glittered, and my
heart skipped a beat.
It was Mrs Dodds. Older, more withered, but definitely the same evil face.
I scrunched down in my seat.
Behind her came two more old ladies: one in a green hat, one in a purple hat.
Otherwise they looked exactly like Mrs Dodds – same gnarled hands, paisley
handbags, wrinkled velvet dresses. Triplet demon grandmothers.
They sat in the front row, right behind the driver. The two on the aisle crossed
their legs over the walkway, making an X. It was casual enough, but it sent a
clear message: nobody leaves.
The bus pulled out of the station, and we headed through the slick streets of
Manhattan. ‘She didn’t stay dead long,’ I said, trying to keep my voice from
quivering. ‘I thought you said they could be dispelled for a lifetime.’
‘I said if you’re lucky,’ Annabeth said. ‘You’re obviously not.’
‘All three of them,’ Grover whimpered. ‘Di immortales!’
‘It’s okay,’ Annabeth said, obviously thinking hard. ‘The Furies. The three
worst monsters from the Underworld. No problem. No problem. We’ll just slip
out the windows.’
‘They don’t open,’ Grover moaned.
‘A back exit?’she suggested.
There wasn’t one. Even if there had been, it wouldn’t have helped. By that
time, we were on Ninth Avenue, heading for the Lincoln Tunnel.
‘They won’t attack us with witnesses around,’ I said. ‘Will they?’
‘Mortals don’t have good eyes,’ Annabeth reminded me. ‘Their brains can
only process what they see through the Mist.’
‘They’ll see three old ladies killing us, won’t they?’
She thought about it. ‘Hard to say. But we can’t count on mortals for help.
Maybe an emergency exit in the roof…?’
We hit the Lincoln Tunnel, and the bus went dark except for the running lights
down the aisle. It was eerily quiet without the sound of the rain.
Mrs Dodds got up. In a flat voice, as if she’d rehearsed it, she announced to
the whole bus: ‘I need to use the restroom.’
‘So do I,’said the second sister.
‘So do I,’said the third sister.
They all started coming down the aisle.
‘I’ve got it,’ Annabeth said. ‘Percy, take my hat.’
‘What?’
‘You’re the one they want. Turn invisible and go up the aisle. Let them pass
you. Maybe you can get to the front and get away.’
‘But you guys –’
‘There’s an outside chance they might not notice us,’ Annabeth said. ‘You’re a
son of one of the Big Three. Your smell might be overpowering.’
‘I can’t just leave you.’
‘Don’t worry about us,’ Grover said. ‘Go!’
My hands trembled. I felt like a coward, but I took the Yankees cap and put it
on.
When I looked down, my body wasn’t there any more.
I started creeping up the aisle. I managed to get up ten rows, then duck into an
empty seat just as the Furies walked past.
Mrs Dodds stopped, sniffing, and looked straight at me. My heart was
pounding.
Apparently she didn’t see anything. She and her sisters kept going.
I was free. I made it to the front of the bus. We were almost through the
Lincoln Tunnel now. I was about to press the emergency stop button when I
heard hideous wailing from the back row.
The old ladies were not old ladies any more. Their faces were still the same –
I guess those couldn’t get any uglier – but their bodies had shrivelled into
leathery brown hag bodies with bat’s wings and hands and feet like gargoyle
claws. Their handbags had turned into fiery whips.
The Furies surrounded Grover and Annabeth, lashing their whips, hissing:
‘Where is it? Where?’
The other people on the bus were screaming, cowering in their seats. They
saw something, all right.
‘He’s not here!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘He’s gone!’
The Furies raised their whips.
Annabeth drew her bronze knife. Grover grabbed a tin can from his snack bag
and prepared to throw it.
What I did next was so impulsive and dangerous I should’ve been named
ADHD poster child of the year.
The bus driver was distracted, trying to see what was going on in his rearview
mirror.
Still invisible, I grabbed the wheel from him and jerked it to the left.
Everybody howled as they were thrown to the right, and I heard what I hoped
was the sound of three Furies smashing against the windows.
‘Hey!’ the driver yelled. ‘Hey – whoa!’
We wrestled for the wheel. The bus slammed against the side of the tunnel,
grinding metal, throwing sparks a mile behind us.
We careened out of the Lincoln Tunnel and back into the rainstorm, people
and monsters tossed around the bus, cars ploughed aside like bowling pins.
Somehow the driver found an exit. We shot off the highway, through half a
dozen traffic lights, and ended up barrelling down one of those New Jersey rural
roads where you can’t believe there’s so much nothing right across the river from
New York. There were woods to our left, the Hudson River to our right and the
driver seemed to be veering towards the river.
Another great idea: I hit the emergency brake.
The bus wailed, spun a full circle on the wet tar and crashed into the trees. The
emergency lights came on. The door flew open. The bus driver was the first one
out, the passengers yelling as they stampeded after him. I stepped into the
driver’s seat and let them pass.
The Furies regained their balance. They lashed their whips at Annabeth while
she waved her knife and yelled in Ancient Greek, telling them to back off.
Grover threw tin cans.
I looked at the open doorway. I was free to go, but I couldn’t leave my friends.
I took off the invisible cap. ‘Hey!’
The Furies turned, baring their yellow fangs at me, and the exit suddenly
sounded like an excellent idea. Mrs Dodds stalked up the aisle, just as she used
to do in class, about to deliver my F- maths test. Every time she flicked her
whip, red flames danced along the barbed leather.
Her two ugly sisters hopped on top of the seats on either side of her and
crawled towards me like huge nasty lizards.
‘Perseus Jackson,’ Mrs Dodds said, in an accent that was definitely from
somewhere further south than Georgia. ‘You have offended the gods. You shall
die.’
‘I liked you better as a maths teacher,’ I told her.
She growled.
Annabeth and Grover moved up behind the Furies cautiously, looking for an
opening.
I took the ballpoint pen out of my pocket and uncapped it. Riptide elongated
into a shimmering double-edged sword.
The Furies hesitated.
Mrs Dodds had felt Riptide’s blade before. She obviously didn’t like seeing it
again.
‘Submit now,’she hissed. ‘And you will not suffer eternal torment.’
‘Nice try,’ I told her.
‘Percy, look out!’ Annabeth cried.
Mrs Dodds lashed her whip around my sword hand while the Furies on the
either side lunged at me.
My hand felt like it was wrapped in molten lead, but I managed not to drop
Riptide. I struck the Fury on the left with its hilt, sending her toppling backwards
into a seat. I turned and sliced the Fury on the right. As soon as the blade
connected with her neck, she screamed and exploded into dust. Annabeth got
Mrs Dodds in a wrestler’s hold and yanked her backwards while Grover ripped
the whip out of her hands.
‘Ow!’ he yelled. ‘Ow! Hot! Hot!’
The Fury I’d hilt-slammed came at me again, talons ready, but I swung
Riptide and she broke open like a piñata.
Mrs Dodds was trying to get Annabeth off her back. She kicked, clawed,
hissed and bit, but Annabeth held on while Grover got Mrs Dodds’s legs tied up
in her own whip. Finally they both shoved her backwards into the aisle. Mrs
Dodds tried to get up, but she didn’t have room to flap her bat wings, so she kept
falling down.
‘Zeus will destroy you!’she promised. ‘Hades will have your soul!’
‘Braccas meas vescimini!’ I yelled.
I wasn’t sure where the Latin came from. I think it meant ‘Eat my pants!’
Thunder shook the bus. The hair rose on the back of my neck.
‘Get out!’ Annabeth yelled at me. ‘Now!’ I didn’t need any encouragement.
We rushed outside and found the other passengers wandering around in a
daze, arguing with the driver, or running around in circles yelling, ‘We’re going
to die!’ A Hawaiian-shirted tourist with a camera snapped my photograph before
I could recap my sword.
‘Our bags!’ Grover realized. ‘We left our –’
BOOOOOM!
The windows of the bus exploded as the passengers ran for cover. Lightning
shredded a huge crater in the roof, but an angry wail from inside told me Mrs
Dodds was not yet dead.
‘Run!’ Annabeth said. ‘She’s calling for reinforcements! We have to get out of
here!’
We plunged into the woods as the rain poured down, the bus in flames behind
us and nothing but darkness ahead.