CHAPTER 5: I Make An Underwater Phone Call
I’d never seen Camp Half-Blood in winter before, and the snow surprised me.
See, the camp has the ultimate magic climate control. Nothing gets inside the
borders unless the director, Mr D, wants it to. I thought it would be warm and
sunny, but instead the snow had been allowed to fall lightly. Frost covered the
chariot track and the strawberry fields. The cabins were decorated with tiny
flickering lights, like Christmas lights, except they seemed to be balls of real
fire. More lights glowed in the woods, and, weirdest of all, a fire flickered in the
attic window of the Big House, where the Oracle dwelt, imprisoned in an old
mummified body. I wondered if the spirit of Delphi was roasting marshmallows
up there or something.
‘Whoa,’ Nico said as he climbed off the bus. ‘Is that a climbing wall?’
‘Yeah,’ I said.
‘Why is there lava pouring down it?’
‘Little extra challenge. Come on. I’ll introduce you to Chiron. Zoë, have you
met –’
‘I know Chiron,’ Zoë said stiffly. ‘Tell him we will be in Cabin Eight. Hunters,
follow me.’
‘I’ll show you the way,’ Grover offered.
‘We know the way.’
‘Oh, really, it’s no trouble. It’s easy to get lost here, if you don’t –’ he tripped
over a canoe and came up still talking – ‘like my old daddy goat used to say!
Come on!’
Zoë rolled her eyes, but I guess she figured there was no getting rid of Grover.
The Hunters shouldered their packs and their bows and headed off towards the
cabins. As Bianca di Angelo was leaving, she leaned over and whispered
something in her brother’s ear. She looked at him for an answer, but Nico just
scowled and turned away.
‘Take care, sweethearts!’ Apollo called after the Hunters. He winked at me.
‘Watch out for those prophecies, Percy. I’ll see you soon.’
‘What do you mean?’
Instead of answering, he hopped back in the bus. ‘Later, Thalia,’ he called.
‘And, uh, be good!’
He gave her a wicked smile, as if he knew something she didn’t. Then he
closed the doors and revved the engine. I turned aside as the sun chariot took off
in a blast of heat. When I looked back, the lake was steaming. A red Maserati
soared over the woods, glowing brighter and climbing higher until it disappeared
in a ray of sunlight.
Nico was still looking grumpy. I wondered what his sister had told him.
‘Who’s Chiron?’ he asked. ‘I don’t have his figurine.’
‘Our activities director,’ I said. ‘He’s… well, you’ll see.’
‘If those Hunter girls don’t like him,’ Nico grumbled, ‘that’s good enough for
me. Let’s go.’
The second thing that surprised me about camp was how empty it was. I mean, I
knew most half-bloods only trained during the summer. Just the year-rounders
would be here – the ones who didn’t have homes to go to, or would get attacked
by monsters too much if they left. But there didn’t even seem to be many of
them, either.
I spotted Charles Beckendorf from the Hephaestus cabin stoking the forge
outside the camp armoury. The Stoll brothers, Travis and Connor, from the
Hermes cabin, were picking the lock on the camp store. A few kids from the
Ares cabin were having a snowball fight with the wood nymphs at the edge of
the forest. That was about it. Even my old rival from the Ares cabin, Clarisse,
didn’t seem to be around.
The Big House was decorated with strings of red and yellow fireballs that
warmed the porch but didn’t seem to set anything alight. Inside, flames crackled
in the hearth. The air smelled like hot chocolate. Mr D, the camp director, and
Chiron were playing a quiet game of cards in the parlour.
Chiron’s brown beard was shaggier for the winter. His curly hair had grown a
little longer. He wasn’t posing as a teacher this year, so I guess he could afford to
be casual. He wore a fuzzy sweater with a hoof-print design on it, and he had a
blanket on his lap that almost hid his wheelchair completely.
He smiled when he saw us. ‘Percy! Thalia! Ah, and this must be –’
‘Nico di Angelo,’ I said. ‘He and his sister are half-bloods.’
Chiron breathed a sigh of relief. ‘You succeeded, then.’
‘Well…’
His smile melted. ‘What’s wrong? And where is Annabeth?’
‘Oh, dear,’ Mr D said in a bored voice. ‘Not another one lost.’
I’d been trying not to pay attention to Mr D, but he was kind of hard to ignore
in his neon-orange leopard-skin warm-up suit and his purple running shoes.
(Like Mr D had ever run a day in his immortal life.) A golden laurel wreath was
tilted sideways on his curly black hair, which must’ve meant he’d won the last
hand of cards.
‘What do you mean?’ Thalia asked. ‘Who else is lost?’
Just then, Grover trotted into the room, grinning like crazy. He had a black eye
and red lines on his face that looked like a slap mark. ‘The Hunters are all
moved in!’
Chiron frowned. ‘The Hunters, eh? I see we have much to talk about.’ He
glanced at Nico. ‘Grover, perhaps you should take our young friend to the den
and show him our orientation film.’
‘But… Oh, right. Yes, sir.’
‘Orientation film?’ Nico asked. ‘Is it G or PG?’ Cause Bianca is kinda strict –’
‘It’s PG-13,’ Grover said.
‘Cool!’ Nico happily followed him out of the room.
‘Now,’ Chiron said to Thalia and me, ‘perhaps you two should sit down and
tell us the whole story.’
When we were done, Chiron turned to Mr D. ‘We should launch a search for
Annabeth immediately.’
‘I’ll go,’ Thalia and I said at the same time.
Mr D sniffed. ‘Certainly not!’
Thalia and I both started complaining, but Mr D held up his hand. He had that
purplish angry fire in his eyes that usually meant something bad and godly was
going to happen if we didn’t shut up.
‘From what you have told me,’ Mr D said, ‘we have broken even on this
escapade. We have, ah, regrettably lost Annie Bell –’
‘Annabeth,’ I snapped. She’d gone to camp since she was seven, and still Mr
D pretended not to know her name.
‘Yes, yes,’ he said. ‘And you procured a small annoying boy to replace her. So
I see no point risking further half-bloods on a ridiculous rescue. The possibility
is very great that this Annie girl is dead.’
I wanted to strangle Mr D. It wasn’t fair Zeus had sent him here to dry out as
camp director for a hundred years. It was meant to be a punishment for Mr D’s
bad behavior on Olympus, but it ended up being a punishment for all of us.
‘Annabeth may be alive,’ Chiron said, but I could tell he was having trouble
sounding upbeat. He’d practically raised Annabeth all those years she was a
year-round camper, before she’d given living with her dad and stepmom a
second try. ‘She’s very bright. If… if our enemies have her, she will try to play
for time. She may even pretend to cooperate.’
‘That’s right,’ Thalia said. ‘Luke would want her alive.’
‘In which case,’ said Mr D, ‘I’m afraid she will have to be smart enough to
escape on her own.’
I got up from the table.
‘Percy.’ Chiron’s tone was full of warning. In the back of my mind, I knew Mr
D was not somebody to mess with. Even if you were an impulsive ADHD kid
like me, he wouldn’t give you any slack. But I was so angry I didn’t care.
‘You’re glad to lose another camper,’ I said. ‘You’d like it if we all
disappeared!’
Mr D stifled a yawn. ‘You have a point?’
‘Yeah,’ I growled. ‘Just because you were sent here as a punishment doesn’t
mean you have to be a lazy jerk! This is your civilization, too. Maybe you could
try helping out a little!’
For a second, there was no sound except the crackle of the fire. The light
reflected in Mr D’s eyes, giving him a sinister look. He opened his mouth to say
something – probably a curse that would blast me to smithereens – when Nico
burst into the room, followed by Grover.
‘SO COOL!’ Nico yelled, holding his hands out to Chiron. ‘You’re… you’re a
centaur!’
Chiron managed a nervous smile. ‘Yes, Mr di Angelo, if you please. Though, I
prefer to stay in human form in this wheelchair for, ah, first encounters.’
‘And, whoa!’ He looked at Mr D. ‘You’re the wine dude? No way!’
Mr D turned his eyes away from me and gave Nico a look of loathing. ‘The
wine dude?’
‘Dionysus, right? Oh, wow! I’ve got your figurine.’
‘My figurine.’
‘In my game, Mythomagic. And a holofoil card, too! And even though you’ve
only got like five hundred attack points and everybody thinks you’re the lamest
god card, I totally think your powers are sweet!’
‘Ah.’ Mr D seemed truly perplexed, which probably saved my life. ‘Well,
that’s… gratifying.’
‘Percy,’ Chiron said quickly, ‘you and Thalia go down to the cabins. Inform
the campers we’ll be playing capture
the flag tomorrow evening.’
‘Capture the flag?’ I asked. ‘But we don’t have enough –’
‘It is a tradition,’ Chiron said. ‘A friendly match, whenever the Hunters visit.’
‘Yeah,’ Thalia muttered. ‘I bet it’s real friendly.’
Chiron jerked his head towards Mr D, who was still frowning as Nico talked
about how many defence points all the gods had in his game. ‘Run along now,’
Chiron told us.
‘Oh, right,’ Thalia said. ‘Come on, Percy.’
She hauled me out of the Big House before Dionysus could remember that he
wanted to kill me.
‘You’ve already got Ares on your bad side,’ Thalia reminded me as we trudged
towards the cabins. ‘You need another immortal enemy?’
She was right. My first summer as a camper, I’d got in a fight with Ares, and
now he and all his children wanted to kill me. I didn’t need to make Dionysus
mad, too.
‘Sorry,’ I said. ‘I couldn’t help it. It’s just so unfair.’
She stopped by the armoury and looked out across the valley, towards the top
of Half-Blood Hill. Her pine tree was still there, the Golden Fleece glittering in
its lowest branch. The tree’s magic still protected the borders of camp, but it no
longer used Thalia’s spirit for power.
‘Percy, everything is unfair,’ Thalia muttered. ‘Sometimes I wish…’
She didn’t finish, but her tone was so sad I felt sorry for her. With her ragged
black hair and her black punk clothes, an old wool overcoat wrapped round her,
she looked like some kind of huge raven, completely out of place in the white
landscape.
‘We’ll get Annabeth back,’ I promised. ‘I just don’t know how yet.’
‘First I found out that Luke is lost,’she said. ‘Now Annabeth –’
‘Don’t think like that.’
‘You’re right.’ She straightened up. ‘We’ll find a way.’
Over at the basketball court, a few of the Hunters were shooting hoops. One of
them was arguing with a guy from the Ares cabin. The Ares kid had his hand on
his sword and the Hunter girl looked like she was going to exchange her
basketball for a bow and arrow any second.
‘I’ll break that up,’ Thalia said. ‘You circulate round the cabins. Tell
everybody about capture the flag tomorrow.’
‘All right. You should be team captain.’
‘No, no,’she said. ‘You’ve been at camp longer. You do it.’
‘We can, uh… co-captain or something.’
She looked about as comfortable with that as I felt, but she nodded.
As she headed for the court, I said, ‘Hey, Thalia.’
‘Yeah?’
‘I’m sorry about what happened at Westover. I should’ve waited for you
guys.’
‘’S okay, Percy. I probably would’ve done the same thing.’ She shifted from
foot to foot, like she was trying to decide whether or not to say more. ‘You
know, you asked about my mom and I kinda snapped at you. It’s just… I went
back to find her after seven years, and I found out she died in Los Angeles. She,
um… she was a heavy drinker, and apparently she was out driving late one night
about two years ago, and…’ Thalia blinked hard.
‘I’m sorry.’
‘Yeah, well. It’s… it’s not like we were ever close. I ran away when I was ten.
Best two years of my life were when I was running around with Luke and
Annabeth. But still –’
‘That’s why you had trouble with the sun van.’
She gave me a wary look. ‘What do you mean?’
‘The way you stiffened up. You must’ve been thinking about your mom, not
wanting to get behind the wheel.’
I was sorry I’d said anything. Thalia’s expression was dangerously close to
Zeus’s, the one time I’d seen him get angry – like any minute, her eyes would
shoot a million volts.
‘Yeah,’she muttered. ‘Yeah, that must’ve been it.’
She trudged off towards the court, where the Ares camper and the Hunter
were trying to kill each other with a sword and a basketball.
The cabins were the weirdest collection of buildings you’ve ever seen. Zeus and
Hera’s big white-columned buildings, Cabins One and Two, stood in the middle,
with five gods’ cabins on the left and five goddesses’ cabins on the right, so they
all made a U round the central green and the barbecue hearth.
I made the rounds, telling everybody about capture the flag. I woke up some
Ares kid from his midday nap and he yelled at me to go away. When I asked him
where Clarisse was he said, ‘Went on a quest for Chiron. Top secret!’
‘Is she okay?’
‘Haven’t heard from her in a month. She’s missing in action. Like your butt’s
gonna be if you don’t get outta here!’
I decided to let him go back to sleep.
Finally I got to Cabin Three, the cabin of Poseidon. It was a low grey building
hewn from sea stone, with shells and coral fossils imprinted in the rock. Inside, it
was just as empty as always, except for my bunk. A Minotaur horn hung on the
wall next to my pillow.
I took Annabeth’s baseball cap out of my backpack and set it on my
nightstand. I’d give it to her when I found her. And I would find her.
I took off my wristwatch and activated the shield. It creaked noisily as it
spiralled out. Dr Thorn’s spikes had dented the brass in a dozen places. One gash
kept the shield from opening all the way, so it looked like a pizza with two slices
missing. The beautiful metal pictures that my brother had crafted were all
banged up. In the picture of me and Annabeth fighting the Hydra, it looked like a
meteor had made a crater in my head. I hung the shield on its hook, next to the
Minotaur horn, but it was painful to look at now. Maybe Beckendorf from the
Hephaestus cabin could fix it for me. He was the best armoursmith in the camp.
I’d ask him at dinner.
I was staring at the shield when I noticed a strange sound – water gurgling –
and I realized there was something new in the room. At the back of the cabin
was a big basin of grey sea rock, with a spout like the head of a fish carved in
stone. Out of its mouth burst a stream of water, a saltwater spring that trickled
into the pool. The water must’ve been hot, because it sent mist into the cold
winter air like a sauna. It made the room feel warm and summery, fresh with the
smell of the sea.
I stepped up to the pool. There was no note attached or anything, but I knew it
could only be a gift from Poseidon.
I looked into the water and said, ‘Thanks, Dad.’
The surface rippled. At the bottom of the pool, coins shimmered – a dozen or
so golden drachma. I realized what the fountain was for. It was a reminder to
keep in touch with my family.
I opened the nearest window, and the wintry sunlight made a rainbow in the
mist. Then I fished a coin out of the hot water.
‘Iris, O Goddess of the Rainbow,’ I said, ‘accept my offering.’
I tossed a coin into the mist and it disappeared. Then I realized I didn’t know
who to contact first.
My mom? That would’ve been the ‘good son’ thing to do, but she wouldn’t be
worried about me yet. She was used to me disappearing for days or weeks at a
time.
My father? It had been way too long, almost two years, since I’d actually
talked to him. But could you even send an Iris-message to a god? I’d never tried.
Would it make them mad, like a sales call or something?
I hesitated. Then I made up my mind.
‘Show me Tyson,’ I requested. ‘At the forges of the Cyclopes.’
The mist shimmered, and the image of my half-brother appeared. He was
surrounded by fire, which would’ve been a problem if he weren’t a Cyclops. He
was bent over an anvil, hammering a red-hot sword blade. Sparks flew and
flames swirled around his body. There was a marble-framed window behind him,
and it looked out onto dark blue water – the bottom of the ocean.
‘Tyson!’ I yelled.
He didn’t hear me at first because of the hammering and the roar of the
flames.
‘TYSON!’
He turned, and his one enormous eye widened. His face broke into a crooked
yellow grin. ‘Percy!’
He dropped the sword blade and ran at me, trying to give me a hug. The vision
blurred and I instinctively lurched back. ‘Tyson, it’s an Iris-message. I’m not
really here.’
‘Oh.’ He came back into view, looking embarrassed. ‘Oh, I knew that. Yes.’
‘How are you?’ I asked. ‘How’s the job?’
His eye lit up. ‘Love the job! Look!’ He picked up the hot sword blade with
his bare hands. ‘I made this!’
‘That’s really cool.’
‘I wrote my name on it. Right there.’
‘Awesome. Listen, do you talk to Dad much?’
Tyson’s smile faded. ‘Not much. Daddy is busy. He is worried about the war.’
‘What do you mean?’
Tyson sighed. He stuck the sword blade out the window, where it made a
cloud of boiling bubbles. When Tyson brought it back in, the metal was cool.
‘Old sea spirits making trouble. Aigaios. Oceanus. Those guys.’
I sort of knew what he was talking about. He meant the immortals who ruled
the oceans back in the days of the Titans. Before the Olympians took over. The
fact that they were back now, with the Titan Lord Kronos and his allies gaining
strength, was not good.
‘Is there anything I can do?’ I asked.
Tyson shook his head sadly. ‘We are arming the mermaids. They need a
thousand more swords by tomorrow.’ He looked at his sword blade and sighed.
‘Old spirits are protecting the bad boat.’
‘The Princess Andromeda?’ I said. ‘Luke’s boat?’
‘Yes. They make it hard to find. Protect it from Daddy’s storms. Otherwise he
would smash it.’
‘Smashing it would be good.’
Tyson perked up, as if he’d just had another thought. ‘Annabeth! Is she there?’
‘Oh, well…’ My heart felt like a bowling ball. Tyson thought Annabeth was
just about the coolest thing since peanut butter (and he seriously loved peanut
butter). I didn’t have the heart to tell him she was missing. He’d start crying so
bad he’d probably put out his fires. ‘Well, no… she’s not here right now.’
‘Tell her hello!’ He beamed. ‘Hello to Annabeth!’
‘Okay.’ I fought back a lump in my throat. ‘I’ll do that.’
‘And, Percy, don’t worry about the bad boat. It is going away.’
‘What do you mean?’
‘Panama Canal! Very far away.’
I frowned. Why would Luke take his demon-infested cruise ship all the way
down there? The last time we’d seen him, he’d been cruising along the East
Coast, recruiting half-bloods and training his monstrous army.
‘All right,’ I said, not feeling reassured. ‘That’s… good. I guess.’
In the forges, a deep voice bellowed something I couldn’t make out. Tyson
flinched. ‘Got to get back to work! Boss will get mad. Good luck, brother!’
‘Okay, tell Dad –’
But before I could finish the vision shimmered and faded. I was alone again in
my cabin, feeling even lonelier than before.
I was pretty miserable at dinner that night.
I mean, the food was excellent as usual. You can’t go wrong with barbecue,
pizza and never-empty soda goblets. The torches and braziers kept the outdoor
pavilion warm, but we all had to sit with our cabin mates, which meant I was
alone at the Poseidon table. Thalia sat alone at the Zeus table, but we couldn’t sit
together. Camp rules. At least the Hephaestus, Ares and Hermes cabins had a
few people each. Nico sat with the Stoll brothers, since new campers always got
stuck in the Hermes cabin if their Olympian parent was unknown. The Stoll
brothers seemed to be trying to convince Nico that poker was a much better
game than Mythomagic. I hoped Nico didn’t have any money to lose.
The only table that really seemed to be having a good time was the Artemis
table. The Hunters drank and ate and laughed like one big happy family. Zoë sat
at the head like she was the mama. She didn’t laugh as much as the others, but
she did smile from time to time. Her silver lieutenant’s band glittered in the dark
braids of her hair. I thought she looked a lot nicer when she smiled. Bianca di
Angelo seemed to be having a great time. She was trying to learn how to arm
wrestle from the big girl who’d picked a fight with the Ares kid on the basketball
court. The bigger girl was beating her every time, but Bianca didn’t seem to
mind.
When we’d finished eating, Chiron made the customary toast to the gods and
formally welcomed the Hunters of Artemis. The clapping was pretty halfhearted. Then he announced the ‘goodwill’ capture-the-flag game for tomorrow
night, which got a much better reception.
Afterwards, we all trailed back to our cabins for an early, winter lights out. I
was exhausted, which meant I fell asleep easily. That was the good part. The bad
part was I had a nightmare, and even by my standards it was a whopper.
Annabeth was on a dark hillside, shrouded in fog. It almost seemed like the
Underworld, because I immediately felt claustrophobic and I couldn’t see the
sky above – just a close heavy darkness, as if I were in a cave.
Annabeth struggled up the hill. Old broken Greek columns of black marble
were scattered around, as though something had blasted a huge building to ruins.
‘Thorn!’ Annabeth cried. ‘Where are you? Why did you bring me here?’ She
scrambled over a section of broken wall and came to the crest of the hill.
She gasped.
There was Luke. And he was in pain.
He was crumpled on the rocky ground, trying to rise. The blackness seemed to
be thicker around him, fog swirling hungrily. His clothes were in tatters and his
face was scratched and drenched with sweat.
‘Annabeth!’ he called. ‘Help me! Please!’
She ran forward.
I tried to cry out: He’s a traitor! Don’t trust him!
But my voice didn’t work in the dream.
Annabeth had tears in her eyes. She reached down like she wanted to touch
Luke’s face, but at the last second she hesitated.
‘What happened?’she asked.
‘They left me here,’ Luke groaned. ‘Please. It’s killing me.’
I couldn’t see what was wrong with him. He seemed to be struggling against
some invisible curse, as though the fog were squeezing him to death.
‘Why should I trust you?’ Annabeth asked. Her voice was filled with hurt.
‘You shouldn’t,’ Luke said. ‘I’ve been terrible to you. But, if you don’t help
me, I’ll die.’
Let him die, I wanted to scream. Luke had tried to kill us in cold blood too
many times. He didn’t deserve anything from Annabeth.
Then the darkness above Luke began to crumble, like a cavern roof in an
earthquake. Huge chunks of black rock began falling. Annabeth rushed in just as
a crack appeared, and the whole ceiling dropped. She held it somehow – tons of
rock. She kept it from collapsing on her and Luke just with her own strength. It
was impossible. She shouldn’t have been able to do that.
Luke rolled free, gasping. ‘Thanks,’ he managed.
‘Help me hold it,’ Annabeth groaned.
Luke caught his breath. His face was covered in grime and sweat. He rose
unsteadily.
‘I knew I could count on you.’ He began to walk away as the trembling
blackness threatened to crush Annabeth.
‘HELP ME!’she pleaded.
‘Oh, don’t worry,’ Luke said. ‘Your help is on the way. It’s all part of the plan.
In the meantime, try not to die.’
The ceiling of darkness began to crumble more, pushing Annabeth against the
ground.
I sat bolt upright in bed, clawing at the sheets. There was no sound in my cabin
except the gurgle of the saltwater spring. The clock on my nightstand read just
after midnight.
Only a dream, but I was sure of two things: Annabeth was in terrible danger.
And Luke was responsible.