CHAPTER 18: Annabeth Does Obedience School
We stood in the shadows of Valencia Boulevard, looking up at gold letters etched
in black marble: DOA RECORDING STUDIOS.
Underneath, stencilled on the glass doors: NO SOLICITORS. NO
LOITERING. NO LIVING.
It was almost midnight, but the lobby was brightly lit and full of people.
Behind the security desk sat a tough-looking guard with sunglasses and an
earpiece.
I turned to my friends. ‘Okay. You remember the plan.’
‘The plan,’ Grover gulped. ‘Yeah. I love the plan.’
Annabeth said, ‘What happens if the plan doesn’t work?’
‘Don’t think negative.’
‘Right,’ she said. ‘We’re entering the Land of the Dead, and I shouldn’t think
negative.’
I took the pearls out of my pocket, the three milky spheres the Nereid had
given me in Santa Monica. They didn’t seem like much of a backup in case
something went wrong.
Annabeth put her hand on my shoulder. ‘I’m sorry, Percy. You’re right, we’ll
make it. It’ll be fine.’
She gave Grover a nudge.
‘Oh, right!’ he chimed in. ‘We got this far. Well find the master bolt and save
your mom. No problem.’
I looked at them both, and felt really grateful. Only a few minutes before, I’d
almost got them stretched to death on deluxe waterbeds, and now they were
trying to be brave for my sake, trying to make me feel better.
I slipped the pearls back in my pocket. ‘Let’s whup some Underworld butt.’
We walked inside the DOA lobby.
Muzak played softly on hidden speakers. The carpet and walls were steel grey.
Pencil cactuses grew in the corners like skeleton hands. The furniture was black
leather, and every seat was taken. There were people sitting on couches, people
standing up, people staring out the windows or waiting for the elevator. Nobody
moved, or talked, or did much of anything. Out of the corner of my eye, I could
see them all just fine, but if I focused on any one of them in particular, they
started looking… transparent. I could see right through their bodies.
The security guard’s desk was a raised podium, so we had to look up at him.
He was tall and elegant, with chocolate-coloured skin and bleached-blond hair
shaved military style. He wore tortoiseshell shades and a silk Italian suit that
matched his hair. A black rose was pinned to his lapel under a silver name tag.
I read the name tag, then looked at him in bewilderment. ‘Your name is
Chiron?’
He leaned across the desk. I couldn’t see anything in his glasses except my
own reflection, but his smile was sweet and cold, like a pythons, right before it
eats you.
‘What a precious young lad.’ He had a strange accent – British, maybe, but
also as if he had learned English as a second language. ‘Tell me, mate, do I look
like a centaur?’
‘N-no.’
‘Sir,’ he added smoothly.
‘Sir,’ I said.
He pinched the name tag and ran his finger under the letters. ‘Can you read
this, mate? It says C-H-A-R-O-N. Say it with me: CARE-ON.’
‘Charon.’
‘Amazing! Now: Mr Charon.’
‘Mr Charon,’ I said.
‘Well done.’ He sat back. ‘I hate being confused with that old horse-man. And
now, how may I help you little dead ones?’
His question caught in my stomach like a fastball. I looked at Annabeth for
support.
‘We want to go the Underworld,’she said.
Charon’s mouth twitched. ‘Well, that’s refreshing.’
‘It is?’she asked.
‘Straightforward and honest. No screaming. No “There must be a mistake, Mr
Charon”.’ He looked us over. ‘How did you die, then?’
I nudged Grover.
‘Oh,’ he said. ‘Um… drowned… in the bathtub.’
‘All three of you?’ Charon asked.
We nodded.
‘Big bathtub.’ Charon looked mildly impressed. ‘I don’t suppose you have
coins for passage. Normally, with adults, you see, I could charge your American
Express, or add the ferry price to your last cable bill. But with children… alas,
you never die prepared. Suppose you’ll have to take a seat for a few centuries.’
‘Oh, but we have coins.’ I set three golden drachmas on the counter, part of
the stash I’d found in Crusty’s office desk.
‘Well, now…’ Charon moistened his lips. ‘Real drachmas. Real golden
drachmas. I haven’t seen these in…’
His fingers hovered greedily over the coins.
We were so close.
Then Charon looked at me. That cold stare behind his glasses seemed to bore
a hole through my chest. ‘Here now,’ he said. ‘You couldn’t read my name
correctly. Are you dyslexic, lad?’
‘No,’ I said. ‘I’m dead.’
Charon leaned forward and took a sniff. ‘You’re not dead. I should’ve known.
You’re a godling.’
‘We have to get to the Underworld,’ I insisted.
Charon made a growling sound deep in his throat.
Immediately, all the people in the waiting room got up and started pacing,
agitated, lighting cigarettes, running hands through their hair, or checking their
wristwatches.
‘Leave while you can,’ Charon told us. ‘I’ll just take these and forget I saw
you.’
He started to go for the coins, but I snatched them back.
‘No service, no tip.’ I tried to sound braver than I felt.
Charon growled again – a deep, blood-chilling sound. The spirits of the dead
started pounding on the elevator doors.
‘It’s a shame, too,’ I sighed. ‘We had more to offer.’
I held up the entire bag from Crusty’s stash. I took out a fistful of drachmas
and let the coins spill through my fingers.
Charon’s growl changed into something more like a lion’s purr. ‘Do you think
I can be bought, godling? Eh… just out of curiosity, how much have you got
there?’
‘A lot,’ I said. ‘I bet Hades doesn’t pay you well enough for such hard work.’
‘Oh, you don’t know the half of it. How would you like to babysit these spirits
all day? Always “Please don’t let me be dead” or “Please let me across for free”.
I haven’t had a pay raise in three thousand years. Do you imagine suits like this
come cheap?’
‘You deserve better,’ I agreed. ‘A little appreciation. Respect. Good pay.’
With each word, I stacked another gold coin on the counter.
Charon glanced down at his silk Italian jacket, as if imagining himself in
something even better. ‘I must say, lad, you’re making some sense now. Just a
little.’
I stacked another few coins. ‘I could mention a pay raise while I’m talking to
Hades.’
He sighed. ‘The boat’s almost full, anyway. I might as well add you three and
be off.’
He stood, scooped up our money, and said, ‘Come along.’
We pushed through the crowd of waiting spirits, who started grabbing at our
clothes like the wind, their voices whispering things I couldn’t make out. Charon
shoved them out of the way, grumbling, ‘Freeloaders.’
He escorted us into the elevator, which was already crowded with souls of the
dead, each one holding a green boarding pass. Charon grabbed two spirits who
were trying to get on with us and pushed them back into the lobby.
‘Right. Now, no one get any ideas while I’m gone,’ he announced to the
waiting room. ‘And if anyone moves the dial off my easy-listening station again,
I’ll make sure you’re here for another thousand years. Understand?’
He shut the doors. He put a key card into a slot in the elevator panel and we
started to descend.
‘What happens to the spirits waiting in the lobby?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Nothing,’ Charon said.
‘For how long?’
‘Forever, or until I’m feeling generous.’
‘Oh,’she said. ‘That’s… fair.’
Charon raised an eyebrow. ‘Whoever said death was fair, young miss? Wait
until it’s your turn. You’ll die soon enough, where you’re going.’
‘We’ll get out alive,’ I said.
‘Ha.’
I got a sudden dizzy feeling. We weren’t going down any more, but forward.
The air turned misty. Spirits around me started changing shape. Their modern
clothes flickered, turning into grey hooded robes. The floor of the elevator began
swaying.
I blinked hard. When I opened my eyes, Charon’s creamy Italian suit had been
replaced by a long black robe. His tortoiseshell glasses were gone. Where his
eyes should’ve been were empty sockets – like Ares’s eyes, except Charon’s
were totally dark, full of night and death and despair.
He saw me looking, and said, ‘Well?’
‘Nothing,’ I managed.
I thought he was grinning, but that wasn’t it. The flesh of his face was
becoming transparent, letting me see straight through to his skull.
The floor kept swaying.
Grover said, ‘I think I’m getting seasick.’
When I blinked again, the elevator wasn’t an elevator any more. We were
standing in a wooden barge. Charon was poling us across a dark, oily river,
swirling with bones, dead fish and other, stranger things – plastic dolls, crushed
carnations, soggy diplomas with gilt edges.
‘The River Styx,’ Annabeth murmured. ‘It’s so…’
‘Polluted,’ Charon said. ‘For thousands of years, you humans have been
throwing in everything as you come across – hopes, dreams, wishes that never
came true. Irresponsible waste management, if you ask me.’
Mist curled off the filthy water. Above us, almost lost in the gloom, was a
ceiling of stalactites. Ahead, the far shore glimmered with greenish light, the
colour of poison.
Panic closed up my throat. What was I doing here? These people around me…
they were dead.
Annabeth grabbed hold of my hand. Under normal circumstances, this
would’ve embarrassed me, but I understood how she felt. She wanted
reassurance that somebody else was alive on this boat.
I found myself muttering a prayer, though I wasn’t quite sure who I was
praying to. Down here, only one god mattered, and he was the one I had come to
confront.
The shoreline of the Underworld came into view. Craggy rocks and black
volcanic sand stretched inland about fifty metres to the base of a high stone wall,
which marched off in either direction as far as we could see. A sound came from
somewhere nearby in the green gloom, echoing off the stones – the howl of a
large animal.
‘Old Three-Face is hungry,’ Charon said. His smile turned skeletal in the
greenish light. ‘Bad luck for you, godlings.’
The bottom of our boat slid onto the black sand. The dead began to disembark.
A woman holding a little girls hand. An old man and an old woman hobbling
along arm in arm. A boy no older than I was, shuffling silently along in his grey
robe.
Charon said, ‘I’d wish you luck, mate, but there isn’t any down here. Mind
you, don’t forget to mention my pay raise.’
He counted our golden coins into his pouch, then took up his pole. He warbled
something that sounded like a Barry Manilow song as he ferried the empty barge
back across the river.
We followed the spirits up a well-worn path.
I’m not sure what I was expecting – Pearly Gates, or a big black portcullis, or
something. But the entrance to the Underworld looked like a cross between
airport security and the Jersey Turnpike.
There were three separate entrances under one huge black archway that said:
YOU ARE NOW ENTERING EREBUS. Each entrance had a pass-through
metal detector mounted with security cameras. Beyond this were tollbooths
manned by black-robed ghouls like Charon.
The howling of the hungry animal was really loud now, but I couldn’t see
where it was coming from. The three-headed dog, Cerberus, who was supposed
to guard Hades’s door, was nowhere to be seen.
The dead queued up in the three lines, two marked: ATTENDANT ON DUTY,
and one marked: EZ DEATH. The EZ DEATH line was moving right along. The
other two were crawling.
‘What do you figure?’ I asked Annabeth.
‘The fast line must go straight to Asphodel,’ she said. ‘No contest. They don’t
want to risk judgment from the court, because it might go against them.’
‘There’s a court for dead people?’
‘Yeah. Three judges. They switch around who sits on the bench. King Minos,
Thomas Jefferson, Shakespeare – people like that. Sometimes they look at a life
and decide that person needs a special reward – the Fields of Elysium.
Sometimes they decide on punishment. But most people, well, they just lived.
Nothing special, good or bad. So they go to the Fields of Asphodel.’
‘And do what?’
Grover said, ‘Imagine standing in a wheat field in Kansas. Forever.’
‘Harsh,’ I said.
‘Not as harsh as that,’ Grover muttered. ‘Look.’
A couple of black-robed ghouls had pulled aside one spirit and were frisking
him at the security desk. The face of the dead man looked vaguely familiar.
‘He’s that preacher who made the news, remember?’ Grover asked.
‘Oh, yeah.’ I did remember now. We’d seen him on TV a couple of times at
the Yancy Academy dorm. He was this annoying televangelist from upstate New
York who’d raised millions of dollars for orphanages and then got caught
spending the money on stuff for his mansion, like gold-plated toilet seats, and an
indoor putt-putt golf course. He’d died in a police chase when his “Lamborghini
for the Lord” went off a cliff.
I said, ‘What’re they doing to him?’
‘Special punishment from Hades,’ Grover guessed. ‘The really bad people get
his personal attention as soon as they arrive. The Fu – the Kindly Ones will set
up an eternal torture for him.’
The thought of the Furies made me shudder. I realized I was in their home
territory now. Old Mrs Dodds would be licking her lips with anticipation.
‘But if he’s a preacher,’ I said, ‘and he believes in a different hell…’
Grover shrugged. ‘Who says he’s seeing this place the way were seeing it?
Humans see what they want to see. They’re very stubborn – er, persistent, that
way.’
We got closer to the gates. The howling was so loud now it shook the ground
at my feet, but I still couldn’t figure out where it was coming from.
Then, about fifteen metres in front of us, the green mist shimmered. Standing
just where the path split into three lanes was an enormous shadowy monster.
I hadn’t seen it before because it was half transparent, like the dead. Until it
moved, it blended with whatever was behind it. Only its eyes and teeth looked
solid. And it was staring straight at me.
My jaw hung open. All I could think to say was, ‘He’s a Rottweiler.’
I’d always imagined Cerberus as a big black mastiff. But he was obviously a
purebred Rottweiler, except of course that he was twice the size of a woolly
mammoth, mostly invisible, and had three heads.
The dead walked right up to him – no fear at all. The ATTENDANT ON
DUTY lines parted on either side of him. The EZ DEATH spirits walked right
between his front paws and under his belly, which they could do without even
crouching.
‘I’m starting to see him better,’ I muttered. ‘Why is that?’
‘I think…’ Annabeth moistened her lips. ‘I’m afraid it’s because we’re getting
closer to being dead.’
The dog’s middle head craned towards us. It sniffed the air and growled.
It can smell the living,’ I said.
‘But that’s okay,’ Grover said, trembling next to me. ‘Because we have a
plan.’
‘Right,’ Annabeth said. I’d never heard her voice sound quite so small. ‘A
plan.’
We moved towards the monster.
The middle head snarled at us, then barked so loud my eyeballs rattled.
‘Can you understand it?’ I asked Grover.
‘Oh yeah,’ he said. ‘I can understand it.’
‘What’s it saying?’
‘I don’t think humans have a four-letter word that translates, exactly.’
I took the big stick out of my backpack – a bed post I’d broken off Crusty’s
Safari Deluxe floor model. I held it up, and tried to channel happy dog thoughts
towards Cerberus – Alpo commercials, cute little puppies, fire hydrants. I tried
to smile like I wasn’t about to die.
‘Hey, Big Fella,’ I called up. ‘I bet they don’t play with you much.’
‘GROWWWLLLL!’
‘Good boy,’ I said weakly.
I waved the stick. The dog’s middle head followed the movement. The other
two heads trained their eyes on me, completely ignoring the spirits. I had
Cerberus’s undivided attention. I wasn’t sure that was a good thing.
‘Fetch!’ I threw the stick into the gloom, a good solid throw. I heard it go
ker˜sploosh in the River Styx.
Cerberus glared at me, unimpressed. His eyes were baleful and cold.
So much for the plan.
Cerberus was now making a new kind of growl, deeper down in his three
throats.
‘Um,’ Grover said. ‘Percy?’
‘Yeah?’
‘I just thought you’d want to know.’
‘Yeah?’
‘Cerberus? He’s saying we’ve got ten seconds to pray to the god of our
choice. After that… well… he’s hungry.’
‘Wait!’ Annabeth said. She started rifling through her pack.
Uh-oh, I thought.
‘Five seconds,’ Grover said. ‘Do we run now?’
Annabeth produced a red rubber ball the size of a grapefruit. It was labelled:
WATERLAND, DENVER, CO. Before I could stop her, she raised the ball and
marched straight up to Cerberus.
She shouted, ‘See the ball? You want the ball, Cerberus? Sit!’
Cerberus looked as stunned as we were.
All three of his heads cocked sideways. Six nostrils dilated.
‘Sit!’ Annabeth called again.
I was sure that any moment she would become the worlds largest Milkbone
dog biscuit.
But instead, Cerberus licked his three sets of lips, shifted on his haunches, and
sat, immediately crushing a dozen spirits who’d been passing underneath him in
the EZ DEATH line. The spirits made muffled hisses as they dissipated, like the
air let out of tyres.
Annabeth said, ‘Good boy!’
She threw Cerberus the ball.
He caught it in his middle mouth. It was barely big enough for him to chew,
and the other heads started snapping at the middle, trying to get the new toy.
‘Drop it!’ Annabeth ordered.
Cerberus’s heads stopped fighting and looked at her. The ball was wedged
between two of his teeth like a tiny piece of gum. He made a loud, scary
whimper, then dropped the ball, now slimy and bitten nearly in half, at
Annabeth’s feet.
‘Good boy.’ She picked up the ball, ignoring the monster spit all over it.
She turned towards us. ‘Go now. EZ DEATH line – it’s faster.’
I said, ‘But –’
‘Now!’ She ordered, in the same tone she was using on the dog.
Grover and I inched forward warily.
Cerberus started to growl.
‘Stay!’ Annabeth ordered the monster. ‘If you want the ball, stay!’
Cerberus whimpered, but he stayed where he was.
‘What about you?’ I asked Annabeth as we passed her.
‘I know what I’m doing, Percy,’she muttered. At least, I’m pretty sure…’
Grover and I walked between the monster’s legs.
Please, Annabeth, I prayed. Don’t tell him to sit again.
We made it through. Cerberus wasn’t any less scary-looking from the back.
Annabeth said, ‘Good dog!’
She held up the tattered red ball, and probably came to the same conclusion I
did – if she rewarded Cerberus, there’d be nothing left for another trick.
She threw the ball anyway. The monster’s left mouth immediately snatched it
up, only to be attacked by the middle head while the right head moaned in
protest.
While the monster was distracted, Annabeth walked briskly under its belly
and joined us at the metal detector.
‘How did you do that?’ I asked her, amazed.
‘Obedience school,’ she said breathlessly, and I was surprised to see there
were tears in her eyes. ‘When I was little, at my dad’s house, we had a
Dobermann…’
‘Never mind that,’ Grover said, tugging at my shirt. ‘Come on!’
We were about to bolt through the EZ DEATH line when Cerberus moaned
pitifully from all three mouths. Annabeth stopped.
She turned to face the dog, which had done a one-eighty to look at us.
Cerberus panted expectantly, the tiny red ball in pieces in a puddle of drool at
its feet.
‘Good boy,’ Annabeth said, but her voice sounded melancholy and uncertain.
The monster’s heads turned sideways, as if worried about her.
‘I’ll bring you another ball soon,’ Annabeth promised faintly. ‘Would you like
that?’
The monster whimpered. I didn’t need to speak dog to know Cerberus was
still waiting for the ball.
‘Good dog. I’ll come visit you soon. I – I promise.’ Annabeth turned to us.
‘Let’s go.’
Grover and I pushed through the metal detector, which immediately screamed
and set off flashing red lights. ‘Unauthorized possessions! Magic detected!’
Cerberus started to bark.
We burst through the EZ DEATH gate, which started even more alarms
blaring, and raced into the Underworld.
A few minutes later, we were hiding, out of breath, in the rotten trunk of an
immense black tree as security ghouls scuttled past, yelling for backup from the
Furies.
Grover murmured, ‘Well, Percy, what have we learned today?’
‘That three-headed dogs prefer red rubber balls over sticks?’
‘No,’ Grover told me. ‘We’ve learned that your plans really, really bite!’
I wasn’t sure about that. I thought maybe Annabeth and I had both had the
right idea. Even here in the Underworld, everybody – even monsters – needed a
little attention once in a while.
I thought about that as we waited for the ghouls to pass. I pretended not to see
Annabeth wipe a tear from her cheek as she listened to the mournful keening of
Cerberus in the distance, longing for his new friend.