CHAPTER 14: Pigs Fly
Back at the Plaza, Thalia pulled me aside. ‘What did Prometheus show you?’
Reluctantly, I told her about the vision of May Castellan’s house. Thalia
rubbed her thigh like she was remembering the old wound.
‘That was a bad night,’ she admitted. ‘Annabeth was so little I don’t think she
really understood what she saw. She just knew Luke was upset.’
I looked out of the hotel windows at Central Park. Small fires were still
burning in the north, but otherwise the city seemed unnaturally peaceful. ‘Do
you know what happened to May Castellan? I mean –’
‘I know what you mean,’ Thalia said. ‘I never saw her have an, um, episode,
but Luke told me about the glowing eyes, the strange things she would say. He
made me promise never to tell. What caused it – I have no idea. If Luke knew, he
never told me.’
‘Hermes knew,’ I said. ‘Something caused May to see parts of Luke’s future,
and Hermes understood what would happen – how Luke would turn into
Kronos.’
Thalia frowned. ‘You can’t be sure of that. Remember Prometheus was
manipulating what you saw, Percy, showing you what happened in the worst
possible light. Hermes did love Luke. I could tell just by looking at his face. And
Hermes was there that night because he was checking up on May, taking care of
her. He wasn’t all bad.’
‘It’s still not right,’ I insisted. ‘Luke was just a little kid. Hermes never helped
him, never stopped him from running away.’
Thalia shouldered her bow. Again it struck me how much stronger she looked
now that she’d stopped aging. You could almost see a silvery glow around her –
the blessing of Artemis.
‘Percy,’ she said, ‘you can’t start feeling sorry for Luke. We all have tough
things to deal with. All demigods do. Our parents are hardly ever around. But
Luke made bad choices. Nobody forced him to do that. In fact –’
She glanced down the hall to make sure we were alone. ‘I’m worried about
Annabeth. If she has to face Luke in battle, I don’t know if she can do it. She’s
always had a soft spot for him.’
Blood rose to my face. ‘She’ll do fine.’
‘I don’t know. After that night, after we left his mom’s house? Luke was never
the same. He got reckless and moody, like he had something to prove. By the
time Grover found us and tried to get us to camp … well, part of the reason we
had so much trouble was because Luke wouldn’t be careful. He wanted to pick a
fight with every monster we crossed. Annabeth didn’t see that as a problem.
Luke was her hero. She only understood that his parents had made him sad, and
she got very defensive of him. She still is defensive. All I’m saying … Don’t you
fall into the same trap. Luke has given himself to Kronos now. We can’t afford to
be soft on him.’
I looked out at the fires in Harlem, wondering how many sleeping mortals
were in danger right now because of Luke’s bad choices.
‘You’re right,’ I said.
Thalia patted my shoulder. ‘I’m going to check on the Hunters, then get some
more sleep before nightfall. You should crash, too.’
‘The last thing I need is more dreams.’
‘I know, believe me.’ Her dark expression made me wonder what she’d been
dreaming about. It was a common demigod problem: the more dangerous our
situation became, the worse and more frequent our dreams got. ‘But, Percy,
there’s no telling when you’ll get another chance for rest. It’s going to be a long
night – maybe our last night.’
I didn’t like it, but I knew she was right. I nodded wearily and gave her
Pandora’s jar. ‘Do me a favour. Lock this in the hotel vault, will you? I think I’m
allergic to pithos.’
Thalia smiled. ‘You got it.’
I found the nearest bed and passed out. But of course sleep only brought more
nightmares.
I saw the undersea palace of my father. The enemy army was closer now,
entrenched only a few hundred metres outside the palace. The fortress walls
were completely destroyed. The temple my dad had used as his headquarters was
burning with Greek fire.
I zoomed in on the armoury, where my brother and some other Cyclopes were
on lunch break, eating from huge jars of extra-chunky peanut butter (and don’t
ask me how it tasted underwater, because I don’t want to know). As I watched,
the outer wall of the armoury exploded. A Cyclops warrior stumbled inside,
collapsing on the lunch table. Tyson knelt down to help, but it was too late. The
Cyclops dissolved into sea silt.
Enemy giants moved towards the breech, and Tyson picked up the fallen
warrior’s club. He yelled something to his fellow blacksmiths – probably ‘For
Poseidon!’ – but with his mouth full of peanut butter it sounded like, ‘PUH
PTEH BUN.’ His brethren all grabbed hammers and chisels, yelled, ‘PEANUT
BUTTER!’ and charged behind Tyson into battle.
Then the scene shifted. I was with Ethan Nakamura at the enemy camp. What
I saw made me shiver, partly because the army was so huge, partly because I
recognized the place.
We were in the backwoods of New Jersey, on a crumbling road lined with rundown businesses and tattered billboard signs. A trampled fence ringed a big yard
full of cement statuary. The sign above the warehouse was hard to read because
it was in red cursive, but I knew what it said: AUNTY EM’S GARDEN GNOME
EMPORIUM.
I hadn’t thought about the place in years. It was clearly abandoned. The
statues were broken and spray-painted with graffiti. A cement satyr – Grover’s
Uncle Ferdinand – had lost his arm. Part of the warehouse roof had caved in. A
big yellow sign pasted on the door read: CONDEMNED.
Hundreds of tents and fires surrounded the property. Mostly I saw monsters,
but there were some human mercenaries in combat fatigues and demigods in
armour, too. A purple-and-black banner hung outside the emporium, guarded by
two huge blue Hyperboreans.
Ethan crouched at the nearest campfire. A couple of other demigods sat with
him, sharpening their swords. The doors of the warehouse opened and
Prometheus stepped out.
‘Nakamura,’ he called. ‘The master would like to speak to you.’
Ethan stood up warily. ‘Something wrong?’
Prometheus smiled. ‘You’ll have to ask him.’
One of the other demigods snickered. ‘Nice knowing you.’
Ethan readjusted his sword belt and headed into the warehouse.
Except for the hole in the roof, the place was just as I remembered. Statues of
terrified people stood frozen in mid-scream. In the snack-bar area, the picnic
tables had been moved aside. Right between the drink dispenser and pretzel
warmer stood a golden throne. Kronos lounged on it, his scythe across his lap.
He wore jeans and a T-shirt, and with his brooding expression he looked almost
human – like the younger version of Luke I’d seen in the vision, pleading with
Hermes to tell him his fate. Then Luke saw Ethan, and his face contorted into a
very inhuman smile. His golden eyes glowed.
‘Well, Nakamura. What did you think of the diplomatic mission?’
Ethan hesitated. ‘I’m sure Lord Prometheus is better suited to speak –’
‘But I asked you.’
Ethan’s good eye darted back and forth, noting the guards that stood around
Kronos. ‘I … I don’t think Jackson will surrender. Ever.’
Kronos nodded. ‘Anything else you wanted to tell me?’
‘N-no, sir.’
‘You look nervous, Ethan.’
‘No, sir. It’s just … I heard this was the lair of –’
‘Medusa? Yes, quite true. Lovely place, eh? Unfortunately, Medusa hasn’t reformed since Jackson killed her, so you needn’t worry about joining her
collection. Besides, there are much more dangerous forces in this room.’
Kronos looked over at a Laistrygonian giant who was munching noisily on
some French fries. Kronos waved his hand and the giant froze. A French fry
hung suspended in midair halfway between his hand and his mouth.
‘Why turn them to stone,’ Kronos asked, ‘when you can freeze time itself?’
His golden eyes bored into Ethan’s face. ‘Now tell me one more thing. What
happened last night on the Williamsburg Bridge?’
Ethan trembled. Beads of perspiration were popping up on his forehead. ‘I – I
don’t know, sir.’
‘Yes, you do.’ Kronos rose from his seat. ‘When you attacked Jackson,
something happened. Something was not quite right. The girl, Annabeth, jumped
in your way.’
‘She wanted to save him.’
‘But he is invulnerable,’ Kronos said quietly. ‘You saw that yourself.’
‘I can’t explain it. Maybe she forgot.’
‘She forgot,’ Kronos said. ‘Yes, that must’ve been it. Oh dear, I forgot my
friend is invulnerable and took a knife for him. Oops. Tell me, Ethan, where
were you aiming when you stabbed at Jackson?’
Ethan frowned. He clasped his hand as if he were holding a blade and mimed
a thrust. ‘I’m not sure, sir. It all happened so fast. I wasn’t aiming for any spot in
particular.’
Kronos’s fingers tapped the blade of his scythe.
‘I see,’ he said in a chilly tone. ‘If your memory improves, I will expect –’
Suddenly the Titan lord winced. The giant in the corner unfroze and the
French fry fell into his mouth. Kronos stumbled backwards and sank into his
throne.
‘My lord?’ Ethan started forward.
‘I –’ The voice was weak, but just for a moment it was Luke’s. Then Kronos’s
expression hardened. He raised his hand and flexed his fingers slowly as if
forcing them to obey.
‘It is nothing,’ he said, his voice steely and cold again. ‘A minor discomfort.’
Ethan moistened his lips. ‘He’s still fighting you, isn’t he? Luke –’
‘Nonsense,’ Kronos spat. ‘Repeat that lie, and I will cut out your tongue. The
boy’s soul has been crushed. I am simply adjusting to the limits of this form. It
requires rest. It is annoying, but no more than a temporary inconvenience.’
‘As – as you say, my lord.’
‘You!’ Kronos pointed his scythe at a dracaena with green armour and a green
crown. ‘Queen Sess, is it?’
‘Yesssss, my lord.’
‘Is our little surprise ready to be unleashed?’
The dracaena queen bared her fangs. ‘Oh, yessss, my lord. Quite a lovely
sssssurprissse.’
‘Excellent,’ Kronos said. ‘Tell my brother Hyperion to move our main force
south into Central Park. The half-bloods will be in such disarray they will not be
able to defend themselves. Go now, Ethan. Work on improving your memory.
We will talk again when we have taken Manhattan.’
Ethan bowed, and my dreams shifted one last time. I saw the Big House at
camp, but it was a different era. The house was painted red instead of blue. The
campers down at the volleyball pit had early 90s hairstyles, which were probably
good for keeping monsters away.
Chiron stood by the porch, talking to Hermes and a woman holding a baby.
Chiron’s hair was shorter and darker. Hermes wore his usual jogging suit with
his winged hi-tops. The woman was tall and pretty. She had blonde hair, shining
eyes and a friendly smile. The baby in her arms squirmed in his blue blanket like
Camp Half-Blood was the last place he wanted to be.
‘It’s an honour to have you here,’ Chiron told the woman, though he sounded
nervous. ‘It’s been a long time since a mortal was allowed at camp.’
‘Don’t encourage her,’ Hermes grumbled. ‘May, you can’t do this.’
With a shock, I realized I was seeing May Castellan. She looked nothing like
the old woman I’d met. She seemed full of life – the kind of person who could
smile and make everyone around her feel good.
‘Oh, don’t worry so much,’ May said, rocking the baby. ‘You need an Oracle,
don’t you? The old one’s been dead for what, twenty years?’
‘Longer,’ Chiron said gravely.
Hermes raised his arms in exasperation. ‘I didn’t tell you that story so you
could apply. It’s dangerous. Chiron, tell her.’
‘It is,’ Chiron warned. ‘For many years, I have forbidden anyone from trying.
We don’t know exactly what’s happened. Humanity seems to have lost the
ability to host the Oracle.’
‘We’ve been through that,’ May said. ‘And I know I can do it. Hermes, this is
my chance to do something good. I’ve been given the gift of sight for a reason.’
I wanted to yell at May Castellan to stop. I knew what was about to happen. I
finally understood how her life had been destroyed. But I couldn’t move or
speak.
Hermes looked more hurt than worried. ‘You couldn’t marry if you became
the Oracle,’ he complained. ‘You couldn’t see me any more.’
May put her hand on his arm. ‘I can’t have you forever, can I? You’ll move on
soon. You’re immortal.’
He started to protest, but she put her hand on his chest. ‘You know it’s true!
Don’t try to spare my feelings. Besides, we have a wonderful child. I can still
raise Luke if I’m the Oracle, right?’
Chiron coughed. ‘Yes, but in all fairness I don’t know how that will affect the
spirit of the Oracle. A woman who has already borne a child – as far as I know,
this has never been done before. If the spirit does not take –’
‘It will,’ May insisted.
No, I wanted to shout. It won’t.
May Castellan kissed her baby and handed the bundle to Hermes. ‘I’ll be right
back.’
She gave them one last confident smile and climbed the steps.
Chiron and Hermes paced in silence. The baby squirmed.
A green glow lit the windows of the house. The campers stopped playing
volleyball and stared up at the attic. A cold wind rushed through the strawberry
fields.
Hermes must’ve felt it, too. He cried, ‘No! NO!’
He shoved the baby into Chiron’s arms and ran for the porch. Before he
reached the door, the sunny afternoon was shattered by May Castellan’s terrified
scream.
I sat up so fast I banged my head on somebody’s shield.
‘Ow!’
‘Sorry, Percy.’ Annabeth was standing over me. ‘I was just about to wake
you.’
I rubbed my head, trying to clear the disturbing visions. Suddenly a lot of
things made sense to me: May Castellan had tried to become the Oracle. She
hadn’t known about Hades’ curse preventing the spirit of Delphi from taking
another host. Neither had Chiron or Hermes. They hadn’t realized that by trying
to take the job, May would be driven mad, plagued with fits during which her
eyes would glow green and she would have shattered glimpses of her child’s
future.
‘Percy?’ Annabeth asked. ‘What’s wrong?’
‘Nothing,’ I lied. ‘What – what are you doing in armour? You should be
resting.’
‘Oh, I’m fine,’ she said, though she still looked pale. She was barely moving
her right arm. ‘That nectar and ambrosia fixed me up.’
‘Uh-huh. You can’t seriously go out and fight.’
She offered me her good hand and helped me up. My head was pounding.
Outside, the sky was purple and red.
‘You’re going to need every person you have,’ she said. ‘I just looked in my
shield. There’s an army –’
‘Heading south into Central Park,’ I said. ‘Yeah, I know.’
I told her part of my dreams. I left out the vision of May Castellan, because it
was too disturbing to talk about. I also left out Ethan’s speculation about Luke
fighting Kronos inside his body. I didn’t want to get Annabeth’s hopes up.
‘Do you think Ethan suspects about your weak spot?’she asked.
‘I don’t know,’ I admitted. ‘He didn’t tell Kronos anything, but if he figures it
out –’
‘We can’t let him.’
‘I’ll bonk him on the head harder next time,’ I suggested. ‘Any idea what
surprise Kronos was talking about?’
She shook her head. ‘I didn’t see anything in the shield, but I don’t like
surprises.’
‘Agreed.’
‘So,’she said, ‘are you going to argue about me coming along?’
‘Nah. You’d just beat me up.’
She managed a laugh, which was good to hear. I grabbed my sword, and we
went to rally the troops.
Thalia and the head counsellors were waiting for us at the reservoir. The lights of
the city were blinking on at twilight. I guess a lot of them were on automatic
timers. Streetlamps glowed around the shore of the lake, making the water and
trees look even spookier.
‘They’re coming,’ Thalia confirmed, pointing north with a silver arrow. ‘One
of my scouts just reported they’ve crossed the Harlem River. There was no way
to hold them back. The army …’ She shrugged. ‘It’s huge.’
‘We’ll hold them at the park,’ I said. ‘Grover, you ready?’
He nodded. ‘As ready as we’ll ever be. If my nature spirits can stop them
anywhere, this is the place.’
‘Yes, we will!’ said another voice. A very old, fat satyr pushed through the
crowd, stumbling over his own spear. He was dressed in wood-bark armour that
only covered half of his belly.
‘Leneus?’ I said.
‘Don’t act so surprised,’ he huffed. ‘I am a leader of the council, and you did
tell me to find Grover. Well, I found him, and I’m not going to let a mere outcast
lead the satyrs without my help!’
Behind Leneus’s back, Grover made gagging motions, but the old satyr
grinned like he was the saviour of the day. ‘Never fear! We’ll show those
Titans!’
I didn’t know whether to laugh or be angry, but I managed to keep a straight
face. ‘Um … yeah. Well, Grover – you won’t be alone. Annabeth and the Athena
cabin will make their stand here. And me, and … Thalia?’
She patted me on the shoulder. ‘Say no more. The Hunters are ready.’
I looked at the other counsellors. ‘That leaves the rest of you with a job just as
important. You have to guard the other entrances to Manhattan. You know how
tricky Kronos is. He’ll hope to distract us with this big army and sneak another
force in somewhere else. It’s up to you to make sure that doesn’t happen. Has
each cabin chosen a bridge or tunnel?’
The counsellors nodded grimly.
‘Then let’s do it,’ I said. ‘Good hunting, everybody!’
We heard the army before we saw it.
The noise was like a cannon barrage combined with a football-stadium crowd
– like every sports fan in New England was charging us with bazookas.
At the north end of the reservoir, the enemy vanguard broke through the
woods – a warrior in golden armour leading a battalion of Laistrygonian giants
with huge bronze axes. Hundreds of other monsters poured out behind them.
‘Positions!’ Annabeth yelled.
Her cabin mates scrambled. The idea was to make the enemy army break
around the reservoir. To get to us, they’d have to follow the trails, which meant
they’d be marching in narrow columns on either side of the water.
At first the plan seemed to work. The enemy divided and streamed towards us
along the shore. When they were halfway across, our defences kicked in. The
jogging trail erupted in Greek fire, incinerating many of the monsters instantly.
Others flailed around, engulfed in green flames. Athena campers threw grappling
hooks around the largest giants and pulled them to the ground.
In the woods on the right, the Hunters sent a volley of silver arrows into the
enemy line, destroying twenty or thirty dracaenae, but more marched behind
them. A bolt of lightning crackled out of the sky and fried a Laistrygonian giant
to ashes, and I knew Thalia must be doing her ‘daughter of Zeus’ thing.
Grover raised his pipes and played a quick tune. A roar went up from the
woods on both sides as every tree, rock and bush seemed to sprout a spirit.
Dryads and satyrs raised their clubs and charged. The trees wrapped around the
monsters, strangling them. Grass grew around the feet of the enemy archers.
Stones flew up and hit dracaenae in the faces.
The enemy slogged forward. Giants smashed through the trees and naiads
faded as their life sources were destroyed. Hellhounds lunged at the timber
wolves, knocking them aside. Enemy archers returned fire and a Hunter fell from
a high branch.
‘Percy!’ Annabeth grabbed my arm and pointed at the reservoir. The Titan in
the gold armour wasn’t waiting for his forces to advance around the sides. He
was charging towards us, walking straight over the top of the lake.
A Greek fire bomb exploded right on top of him, but he raised his palm and
sucked the flames out of the air.
‘Hyperion,’ Annabeth said in awe. ‘The Lord of Light. Titan of the east.’
‘Bad?’ I guessed.
‘Next to Atlas, he’s the greatest Titan warrior. In the old days, four Titans
controlled the four corners of the world. Hyperion was the east – the most
powerful. He was the father of Helios, the first sun god.’
‘I’ll keep him busy,’ I promised.
‘Percy, even you can’t –’
‘Just keep our forces together.’
We’d set up at the reservoir for good reason. I concentrated on the water and
felt its power surging through me.
I advanced towards Hyperion, running over the top of the water. Yeah, buddy.
Two can play that game.
Six metres away, Hyperion raised his sword. His eyes were just like I’d seen
in my dream – as gold as Kronos’s but brighter, like miniature suns.
‘The sea god’s brat,’ he mused. ‘You’re the one who trapped Atlas beneath the
sky again?’
‘It wasn’t hard,’ I said. ‘You Titans are about as bright as my gym socks.’
Hyperion snarled. ‘You want bright?’
His body ignited in a column of light and heat. I looked away, but I was still
blinded.
Instinctively I raised Riptide – just in time. His blade slammed against mine.
The shock wave sent a three-metre ring of water across the surface of the lake.
My eyes still burned. I had to shut off his light.
I concentrated on the tidal wave and forced it to reverse. Just before impact, I
jumped upward on a jet of water.
‘AHHHHH!’ The waves smashed into Hyperion and he went under, his light
extinguished.
I landed on the lake’s surface just as Hyperion struggled to his feet. His
golden armour was dripping wet. His eyes no longer blazed, but they still looked
murderous.
‘You will burn, Jackson!’ he roared.
Our swords met again and the air charged with ozone.
The battle still raged around us. On the right flank, Annabeth was leading an
assault with her siblings. On the left flank, Grover and his nature spirits were
regrouping, entangling the enemies with bushes and weeds.
‘Enough games,’ Hyperion told me. ‘We fight on land.’
I was about to make some clever comment, like ‘No’, when the Titan yelled.
A wall of force slammed me through the air – just like the trick Kronos had
pulled on the bridge. I sailed backwards about a hundred metres and smashed
into the ground. If it hadn’t been for my new invulnerability, I would’ve broken
every bone in my body.
I got to my feet, groaning. ‘I really hate it when you Titans do that.’
Hyperion closed on me with blinding speed.
I concentrated on the water, drawing strength from it.
Hyperion attacked. He was powerful and fast, but he couldn’t seem to land a
blow. The ground around his feet kept erupting in flames, but I kept dousing it
just as quickly.
‘Stop it!’ the Titan roared. ‘Stop that wind!’
I wasn’t sure what he meant. I was too busy fighting.
Hyperion stumbled like he was being pushed away. Water sprayed his face,
stinging his eyes. The wind picked up and Hyperion staggered backwards.
‘Percy!’ Grover called in amazement. ‘How are you doing that?’
Doing what? I thought.
Then I looked down, and I realized I was standing in the middle of my own
personal hurricane. Clouds of water vapour swirled around me, winds so
powerful they buffeted Hyperion and flattened the grass in a twenty-metre
radius. Enemy warriors threw javelins at me, but the storm knocked them aside.
‘Sweet,’ I muttered. ‘But a little more!’
Lightning flickered around me. The clouds darkened and the rain swirled
faster. I closed on Hyperion and blew him off his feet.
‘Percy!’ Grover called again. ‘Bring him over here!’
I slashed and jabbed, letting my reflexes take over. Hyperion could barely
defend himself. His eyes kept trying to ignite, but the hurricane quenched his
flames.
I couldn’t keep up a storm like this forever, though. I could feel my powers
weakening. With one last effort, I propelled Hyperion across the field, straight to
where Grover was waiting.
‘I will not be toyed with!’ Hyperion bellowed.
He managed to get to his feet again, but Grover put his reed pipes to his lips
and began to play. Leneus joined him. Around the grove, every satyr took up the
song – an eerie melody like a creek flowing over stones. The ground erupted at
Hyperion’s feet. Gnarled roots wrapped around his legs.
‘What’s this?’ he protested. He tried to shake off the roots, but he was still
weak. The roots thickened until he looked like he was wearing wooden boots.
‘Stop this!’ he shouted. ‘Your woodland magic is no match for a Titan!’
But the more he struggled, the faster the roots grew. They curled about his
body, thickening and hardening into bark. His golden armour melted into the
wood, becoming part of a large trunk.
The music continued. Hyperion’s forces backed up in astonishment as their
leader was absorbed. He stretched out his arms and they became branches, from
which smaller branches shot out and grew leaves. The tree grew taller and
thicker, until only the Titan’s face was visible in the middle of the trunk.
‘You cannot imprison me!’ he bellowed. ‘I am Hyperion! I am –’
The bark closed over his face.
Grover took his pipes from his mouth. ‘You are a very nice maple tree.’
Several of the other satyrs passed out from exhaustion, but they’d done their
job well. The Titan lord was completely encased in an enormous maple. The
trunk was at least seven metres in diameter, with branches as tall as any in the
park. The tree might’ve stood there for centuries.
The Titans’ army started to retreat. A cheer went up from the Athena cabin,
but our victory was short-lived.
Because just then Kronos unleashed his surprise.
‘REEEEET!’
The squeal echoed through upper Manhattan. Demigods and monsters alike
froze in terror.
Grover shot me a panicked look. ‘Why does that sound like – It can’t be!’
I knew what he was thinking. Two years ago we’d got a ‘gift’ from Pan – a
huge boar that carried us across the Southwest (after it tried to kill us). The boar
had a similar squeal, but what we were hearing now seemed higher pitched,
shriller, almost as if … as if the boar had an angry girlfriend.
‘REEEEEET!’ A huge pink creature soared over the reservoir – a
Thanksgiving Day Parade nightmare blimp with wings.
‘A sow!’ Annabeth cried. ‘Take cover!’
The demigods scattered as the winged lady pig swooped down. Her wings
were pink like a flamingo’s, which matched her skin beautifully, but it was hard
to think of her as ‘cute’ when her hooves slammed into the ground, barely
missing one of Annabeth’s siblings. The pig stomped around and tore down half
an acre of trees, belching a cloud of noxious gas. Then it took off again, circling
around for another strike.
‘Don’t tell me that thing is from Greek mythology,’ I complained.
‘Afraid so,’ Annabeth said. ‘The Clazmonian Sow. It terrorized Greek towns
back in the day.’
‘Let me guess,’ I said. ‘Hercules beat it.’
‘Nope,’ Annabeth said. ‘As far as I know, no hero has ever beaten it.’
‘Perfect,’ I muttered.
The Titans’ army was recovering from its shock. I guess they realized the pig
wasn’t after them.
We only had seconds before they were ready to fight, and our forces were still
in a panic. Every time the sow belched, Grover’s nature spirits yelped and faded
back into their trees.
‘That pig has to go.’ I grabbed a grappling hook from one of Annabeth’s
siblings. ‘I’ll take care of it. You guys hold the rest of the enemy. Push them
back!’
‘But, Percy,’ Grover said, ‘what if we can’t?’
I saw how tired he was. The magic had really drained him. Annabeth didn’t
look much better from fighting with a bad shoulder wound. I didn’t know how
the Hunters were doing, but the right flank of the enemy army was now between
them and us.
I didn’t want to leave my friends in such bad shape, but that sow was the
biggest threat. It would destroy everything – buildings, trees, sleeping mortals. It
had to be stopped.
‘Retreat if you need to,’ I said. ‘Just slow them down. I’ll be back as soon as I
can.’
Before I could change my mind, I swung the grappling hook like a lasso.
When the sow came down for its next pass, I threw with all my strength. The
hook wrapped around the base of the pig’s wing. It squealed in rage and veered
off, yanking the rope and me into the sky.
If you’re heading downtown from Central Park, my advice is to take the subway.
Flying pigs are faster, but way more dangerous.
The sow soared past the Plaza Hotel, straight into the canyon of Fifth Avenue.
My brilliant plan was to climb the rope and get on the pig’s back. Unfortunately,
I was too busy swinging around dodging streetlamps and the sides of buildings.
Another thing I learned: it’s one thing to climb a rope in gym class. It’s a
completely different thing to climb a rope attached to a moving pig’s wing while
you’re flying at a hundred miles an hour.
We zigzagged along several blocks and continued south on Park Avenue.
Boss! Hey, boss! Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Blackjack speeding along
next to us, darting back and forth to avoid the pig’s wings.
‘Watch out!’ I told him.
Hop on! Blackjack whinnied. I can catch you – probably.
That wasn’t very reassuring. Grand Central Station lay dead ahead. Above the
main entrance stood the giant statue of Hermes, which I guess hadn’t been
activated because it was so high up. I was flying right towards him at the speed
of demigod-smashing.
‘Stay alert!’ I told Blackjack. ‘I’ve got an idea.’
Oh, I hate your ideas.
I swung outwards with all my might. Instead of smashing into the Hermes
statue, I whipped around it, circling the rope under its arms. I thought this would
tether the pig, but I’d underestimated the momentum of a thirty-ton sow in flight.
Just as the pig wrenched the statue loose from its pedestal, I let go. Hermes went
for a ride, taking my place as the pig’s passenger, and I freefell towards the
street.
In that split second, I thought about the days when my mom used to work at
the Grand Central Station candy shop. I thought how bad it would be if I ended
up as a grease spot on the pavement.
Then a shadow swooped under me and thump – I was on Blackjack’s back. It
wasn’t the most comfortable landing. In fact when I yelled, ‘OW!’ my voice was
an octave higher than usual.
Sorry, boss, Blackjack murmured.
‘No problem,’ I squeaked. ‘Follow that pig!’
The porker had taken a right at East Forty-second and was flying back
towards Fifth Avenue. When it flew above the rooftops, I could see fires here
and there around the city. It looked like my friends were having a rough time.
Kronos was attacking on several fronts. But at the moment, I had my own
problems.
The Hermes statue was still on its leash. It kept bonking into buildings and
spinning around. The pig swooped over an office building and Hermes ploughed
into a water tower on the roof, blasting water and wood everywhere.
Then something occurred to me.
‘Get closer,’ I told Blackjack.
He whinnied in protest.
‘Just within shouting distance,’ I said. ‘I need to talk to the statue.’
Now I’m sure you’ve lost it, boss, Blackjack said, but he did what I asked.
When I was close enough to see the statue’s face clearly, I yelled, ‘Hello,
Hermes! Command sequence: Daedalus Twenty-three. Kill flying pigs! Begin
Activation!’
Immediately the statue moved its legs. It seemed confused to find it was no
longer on top of Grand Central Station. It was, instead, being given a sky-ride on
the end of a rope by a large winged sow. It smashed through the side of a brick
building, which I think made it a little mad. It shook its head and began to climb
the rope.
I glanced down at the street. We were coming up on the main public library,
with the big marble lions flanking the steps. Suddenly I had a weird thought –
could stone statues be automatons, too? It seemed like a long shot, but …
‘Faster!’ I told Blackjack. ‘Get in front of the pig. Taunt him!’
Um, boss –
‘Trust me,’ I said. ‘I can do this – probably.’
Oh, sure. Mock the horse.
Blackjack burst through the air. He could fly pretty darned fast when we
wanted to. He got in front of the pig, which now had a metal Hermes on its back.
Blackjack whinnied, You smell like ham! He kicked the pig in the snout with
his back hooves and went into a steep dive. The pig screamed in rage and
followed.
We barrelled straight for the front steps of the library. Blackjack slowed down
just enough for me to hop off, then he kept flying towards the main doors.
I yelled out: ‘Lions! Command sequence: Daedalus Twenty-three. Kill flying
pigs! Begin Activation!’
The lions stood up and looked at me. They probably thought I was teasing
them. But just then: ‘REEEEEET!’
The massive pink pork monster landed with a thud, cracking the sidewalk.
The lions stared at it, not believing their luck, and pounced. At the same time, a
very beat-up Hermes statue leaped onto the pig’s head and started banging it
mercilessly with a caduceus. Those lions had some nasty claws.
I drew Riptide, but there wasn’t much for me to do. The pig disintegrated
before my eyes. I almost felt sorry for it. I hoped it got to meet the boar of its
dreams down in Tartarus.
When the monster had completely turned to dust, the lions and the Hermes
statue looked around in confusion.
‘You can defend Manhattan now,’ I told them, but they didn’t seem to hear.
They went charging down Park Avenue, and I imagined they would keep looking
for flying pigs until someone deactivated them.
Hey, boss, said Blackjack. Can we take a doughnut break?
I wiped the sweat off my brow. ‘I wish, big guy, but the fight’s still going on.’
In fact I could hear it getting closer. My friends needed help. I jumped on
Blackjack and we flew north towards the sound of explosions.