CHAPTER 13: Annabeth Tries to Swim Home
I’d finally found something I was really good at.
The Queen Anne’s Revenge responded to my every command. I knew which
ropes to hoist, which sails to raise, which direction to steer. We ploughed
through the waves at what I figured was about ten knots. I even understood how
fast that was. For a sailing ship, pretty darn fast.
It all felt perfect – the wind in my face, the waves breaking over the prow.
But now that we were out of danger, all I could think about was how much I
missed Tyson, and how worried I was about Grover.
I couldn’t get over how badly I’d messed up on Circe’s Island. If it hadn’t
been for Annabeth, I’d still be a rodent, hiding in a hutch with a bunch of cute
furry pirates. I thought about what Circe had said: See, Percy? You’ve unlocked
your true self!
I still felt changed. Not just because I had a sudden desire to eat lettuce. I felt
jumpy, like the instinct to be a scared little animal was now a part of me. Or
maybe it had always been there. That’s what really worried me.
We sailed through the night.
Annabeth tried to help me keep lookout, but sailing didn’t agree with her.
After a few hours’ rocking back and forth, her face turned the colour of
guacamole and she went below to lie in a hammock.
I watched the horizon. More than once I spotted monsters. A plume of water
as tall as a skyscraper spewed into the moonlight. A row of green spines
slithered across the waves – something maybe thirty metres long, reptilian. I
didn’t really want to know.
Once I saw Nereids, the glowing lady spirits of the sea. I tried to wave at
them, but they disappeared into the depths, leaving me unsure whether they’d
seen me or not.
Sometime after midnight, Annabeth came up on deck. We were just passing a
smoking volcano island. The sea bubbled and steamed around the shore.
‘One of the forges of Hephaestus,’ Annabeth said. ‘Where he makes his metal
monsters.’
‘Like the bronze bulls?’
She nodded. ‘Go around. Far around.’
I didn’t need to be told twice. We steered clear of the island, and soon it was
just a red patch of haze behind us.
I looked at Annabeth. ‘The reason you hate Cyclopes so much … the story
about how Thalia really died. What happened?’
It was hard to see her expression in the dark.
‘I guess you deserve to know,’ she said finally. ‘The night Grover was
escorting us to camp, he got confused, took some wrong turns. You remember he
told you that once?’
I nodded.
‘Well, the worst wrong turn was into a Cyclops’s lair in Brooklyn.’
‘They’ve got Cyclopes in Brooklyn?’ I asked.
‘You wouldn’t believe how many, but that’s not the point. This Cyclops, he
tricked us. He managed to split us up inside this maze of corridors in an old
house in Flatbush. And he could sound like anyone, Percy. Just the way Tyson
did aboard the Princess Andromeda. He lured us, one at time. Thalia thought she
was running to save Luke. Luke thought he heard me scream for help. And me
… I was alone in the dark. I was seven years old. I couldn’t even find the exit.’
She brushed the hair out of her face. ‘I remember finding the main room.
There were bones all over the floor. And there were Thalia and Luke and Grover,
tied up and gagged, hanging from the ceiling like smoked hams. The Cyclops
was starting a fire in the middle of the floor. I drew my knife, but he heard me.
He turned and smiled. He spoke, and somehow he knew my dad’s voice. I guess
he just plucked it out of my mind. He said, “Now, Annabeth, don’t you worry. I
love you. You can stay here with me. You can stay forever.’ ”
I shivered. The way she told it – even now, six years later – freaked me out
worse than any ghost story I’d ever heard. ‘What did you do?’
‘I stabbed him in the foot.’
I stared at her. ‘Are you kidding? You were seven years old and you stabbed a
grown Cyclops in the foot?’
‘Oh, he would’ve killed me. But I surprised him. It gave me just enough time
to run to Thalia and cut the ropes on her hands. She took it from there.’
‘Yeah, but still … that was pretty brave, Annabeth.’
She shook her head. ‘We barely got out alive. I still have nightmares, Percy.
The way that Cyclops talked in my father’s voice. It was his fault we took so
long getting to camp. All the monsters who’d been chasing us had time to catch
up. That’s really why Thalia died. If it hadn’t been for that Cyclops, she’d still be
alive today.’
We sat on the deck, watching the Heracles constellation rise in the night sky.
‘Go below,’ Annabeth told me at last. ‘You need some rest.’
I nodded. My eyes were heavy. But when I got below and found a hammock,
it took me a long time to fall asleep. I kept thinking about Annabeth’s story. I
wondered, if I were her, would I have had enough courage to go on this quest, to
sail straight towards the lair of another Cyclops?
I didn’t dream about Grover.
Instead I found myself back in Luke’s stateroom aboard the Princess
Andromeda. The curtains were open. It was nighttime outside. The air swirled
with shadows. Voices whispered all around me – spirits of the dead.
Beware, they whispered. Traps. Trickery.
Kronos’s golden sarcophagus glowed faintly – the only source of light in the
room.
A cold laugh startled me. It seemed to come from miles below the ship. You
don’t have the courage, young one. You can’t stop me.
I knew what I had to do. I had to open that coffin.
I uncapped Riptide. Ghosts whirled around me like a tornado. Beware!
My heart pounded. I couldn’t make my feet move, but I had to stop Kronos. I
had to destroy whatever was in that box.
Then a girl spoke right next to me, ‘Well, Seaweed Brain?’
I looked over, expecting to see Annabeth, but the girl wasn’t Annabeth. She
wore punk-style clothes with silver chains on her wrists. She had spiky black
hair, dark eyeliner around her stormy blue eyes and a spray of freckles across her
nose. She looked familiar, but I wasn’t sure why.
‘Well?’she asked. ‘Are we going to stop him or not?’
I couldn’t answer. I couldn’t move.
The girl rolled her eyes. ‘Fine. Leave it to me and Aegis.’
She tapped her wrist and her silver chains transformed – flattening and
expanding into a huge shield. It was silver and bronze, with the monstrous face
of Medusa protruding from the centre. It looked like a death mask, as if the
gorgon’s real head had been pressed into the metal. I didn’t know if that were
true, or if the shield could really petrify me, but I looked away. Just being near it
made me cold with fear. I got a feeling that in a real fight, the bearer of that
shield would be almost impossible to beat. Any sane enemy would turn and run.
The girl drew her sword and advanced on the sarcophagus. The shadowy
ghosts parted for her, scattering before the terrible aura of her shield.
‘No,’ I tried to warn her.
But she didn’t listen. She marched straight up to the sarcophagus and pushed
aside the golden lid.
For a moment she stood there, gazing down at whatever was in the box.
The coffin began to glow.
‘No.’ The girl’s voice trembled. ‘It can’t be.’
From the depths of the ocean, Kronos laughed so loudly the whole ship
trembled.
‘No!’ The girl screamed as the sarcophagus engulfed her in a blast of golden
light.
‘Ah!’ I sat bolt upright in my hammock.
Annabeth was shaking me. ‘Percy, you were having a nightmare. You need to
get up.’
‘Wh-what is it?’ I rubbed my eyes. ‘What’s wrong?’
‘Land,’she said grimly. ‘We’re approaching the island of the Sirens.’
I could barely make out the island ahead of us – just a dark spot in the mist.
‘I want you to do me a favour,’ Annabeth said. ‘The Sirens … we’ll be in
range of their singing soon.’
I remembered stories about the Sirens. They sang so sweetly their voices
enchanted sailors and lured them to their death.
‘No problem,’ I assured her. ‘We can just stop up our ears. There’s a big tub of
candle wax below deck –’
‘I want to hear them.’
I blinked. ‘Why?’
‘They say the Sirens sing the truth about what you desire. They tell you things
about yourself you didn’t even realize. That’s what’s so enchanting. If you
survive … you become wiser. I want to hear them. How often will I get that
chance?’
Coming from most people, this would’ve made no sense. But Annabeth being
who she was – well, if she could struggle through Ancient Greek architecture
books and enjoy documentaries on the History Channel, I guessed the Sirens
would appeal to her, too.
She told me her plan. Reluctantly, I helped her get ready.
As soon as the rocky coastline of the island came into view, I ordered one of
the ropes to wrap around Annabeth’s waist, tying her to the foremast.
‘Don’t untie me,’ she said, ‘no matter what happens or how much I plead. I’ll
want to go straight over the edge and drown myself.’
‘Are you trying to tempt me?’
‘Ha-ha.’
I promised I’d keep her secure. Then I took two large wads of candle wax,
kneaded them into earplugs, and stuffed my ears.
Annabeth nodded sarcastically, letting me know the earplugs were a real
fashion statement. I made a face at her and turned to the pilot’s wheel.
The silence was eerie. I couldn’t hear anything but the rush of blood in my
head. As we approached the island, jagged rocks loomed out of the fog. I willed
the Queen Anne’s Revenge to skirt around them. If we sailed any closer, those
rocks would shred our hull like blender blades.
I glanced back. At first, Annabeth seemed totally normal. Then she got a
puzzled look on her face. Her eyes widened.
She strained against the ropes. She called my name – I could tell just from
reading her lips. Her expression was clear: she had to get out. This was life or
death. I had to let her out of the ropes right now.
She seemed so miserable it was hard not to cut her free.
I forced myself to look away. I urged the Queen Anne’s Revenge to go faster.
I still couldn’t see much of the island – just mist and rocks – but floating in the
water were pieces of wood and fibreglass, the wreckage of old ships, even some
flotation cushions from aeroplanes.
How could music cause so many lives to veer off course? I mean, sure, there
were some Top Forty songs that made me want to take a fiery nosedive, but still
… What could the Sirens possibly sing about?
For one dangerous moment, I understood Annabeth’s curiosity. I was tempted
to take out the earplugs, just to get a taste of the song. I could feel the Sirens’
voices vibrating in the timbers of the ship, pulsing along with the roar of blood
in my ears.
Annabeth was pleading with me. Tears streamed down her cheeks. She
strained against the ropes, as if they were holding her back from everything she
cared about.
How could you be so cruel? she seemed to be asking me. I thought you were
my friend.
I glared at the misty island. I wanted to uncap my sword, but there was
nothing to fight. How do you fight a song?
I tried hard not to look at Annabeth. I managed it for about five minutes.
That was my big mistake.
When I couldn’t stand it any longer, I looked back and found … a heap of cut
ropes. An empty mast. Annabeth’s bronze knife lay on the deck. Somehow,
she’d managed to wriggle it into her hand. I’d totally forgotten to disarm her.
I rushed to the side of the boat and saw her paddling madly for the island, the
waves carrying her straight towards the jagged rocks.
I screamed her name, but if she heard me, it didn’t do any good. She was
entranced, swimming towards her death.
I looked back at the pilot’s wheel and yelled, ‘Stay!’
Then I jumped over the side.
I sliced into the water and willed the currents to bend around me, making a jet
stream that shot me forward.
I came to the surface and spotted Annabeth, but a wave caught her, sweeping
her between two razor-sharp fangs of rock.
I had no choice. I plunged after her.
I dived under the wrecked hull of a yacht, wove through a collection of
floating metal balls on chains that I realized afterwards were mines. I had to use
all my power over water to avoid getting smashed against the rocks or tangled in
the nets of barbed wire strung just below the surface.
I jetted between the two rock fangs and found myself in a half-moon-shaped
bay. The water was choked with more rocks and ship wreckage and floating
mines. The beach was black volcanic sand.
I looked around desperately for Annabeth.
There she was.
Luckily or unluckily, she was a strong swimmer. She’d made it past the mines
and the rocks. She was almost to the black beach.
Then the mist cleared and I saw them – the Sirens.
Imagine a flock of vultures the size of people – with dirty black plumage, grey
talons and wrinkled pink necks. Now imagine human heads on top of those
necks, but the human heads keep changing.
I couldn’t hear them, but I could see they were singing. As their mouths
moved, their faces morphed into people I knew – my mom, Poseidon, Grover,
Tyson, Chiron. All the people I most wanted to see. They smiled reassuringly,
inviting me forward. But no matter what shape they took, their mouths were
greasy and caked with the remnants of old meals. Like vultures, they’d been
eating with their faces, and it didn’t look like they’d been feasting on Monster
Doughnuts.
Annabeth swam towards them.
I knew I couldn’t let her get out of the water. The sea was my only advantage.
It had always protected me one way or another. I propelled myself forward and
grabbed her ankle.
The moment I touched her, a shock went through my body, and I saw the
Sirens the way Annabeth must’ve been seeing them.
Three people sat on a picnic blanket in Central Park. A feast was spread out
before them. I recognized Annabeth’s dad from photos she’d shown me – an
athletic-looking, sandy-haired guy in his forties. He was holding hands with a
beautiful woman who looked a lot like Annabeth. She was dressed casually – in
blue jeans and a denim shirt and hiking boots – but something about the woman
radiated power. I knew that I was looking at the goddess Athena. Next to them
sat a young man … Luke.
The whole scene glowed in a warm, buttery light. The three of them were
talking and laughing, and when they saw Annabeth, their faces lit up with
delight. Annabeth’s mom and dad held out their arms invitingly. Luke grinned
and gestured for Annabeth to sit next to him – as if he’d never betrayed her, as if
he were still her friend.
Behind the trees of Central Park, a city skyline rose. I caught my breath,
because it was Manhattan, but not Manhattan. It had been totally rebuilt from
dazzling white marble, bigger and grander than ever – with golden windows and
rooftop gardens. It was better than New York. Better than Mount Olympus.
I knew immediately that Annabeth had designed it all. She was the architect
for a whole new world. She had reunited her parents. She had saved Luke. She
had done everything she’d ever wanted.
I blinked hard. When I opened my eyes, all I saw were the Sirens – ragged
vultures with human faces, ready to feed on another victim.
I pulled Annabeth back into the surf. I couldn’t hear her, but I could tell she
was screaming. She kicked me in the face, but I held on.
I willed the currents to carry us out into the bay. Annabeth pummelled and
kicked me, making it hard to concentrate. She thrashed so much we almost
collided with a floating mine. I didn’t know what to do. I’d never get back to the
ship alive if she kept fighting.
We went under and Annabeth stopped struggling. Her expression became
confused. Then our heads broke the surface and she started to fight again.
The water! Sound didn’t travel well underwater. If I could submerge her long
enough, I could break the spell of the music. Of course, Annabeth wouldn’t be
able to breathe, but at the moment, that seemed like a minor problem.
I grabbed her around the waist and ordered the waves to push us down.
We shot into the depths – three metres, six metres. I knew I had to be careful
because I could withstand a lot more pressure than Annabeth. She fought and
struggled for breath as bubbles rose around us.
Bubbles.
I was desperate. I had to keep Annabeth alive. I imagined all the bubbles in
the sea – always churning, rising. I imagined them coming together, being pulled
towards me.
The sea obeyed. There was a flurry of white, a tickling sensation all around
me, and when my vision cleared, Annabeth and I had a huge bubble of air
around us. Only our legs stuck into the water.
She gasped and coughed. Her whole body shuddered, but when she looked at
me, I knew the spell had been broken.
She started to sob – I mean horrible, heartbroken sobbing. She put her head on
my shoulder and I held her.
Fish gathered to look at us – a school of barracudas, some curious marlins.
Scram! I told them.
They swam off, but I could tell they went reluctantly. I swear I understood
their intentions. They were about to start rumours flying around the sea about the
son of Poseidon and some girl at the bottom of Siren Bay.
‘I’ll get us back to the ship,’ I told her. ‘It’s okay. Just hang on.’
Annabeth nodded to let me know she was better now, then she murmured
something I couldn’t hear because of the wax in my ears.
I made the current steer our weird little air submarine through the rocks and
barbed wire and back towards the hull of the Queen Anne’s Revenge, which was
maintaining a slow and steady course away from the island.
We stayed underwater, following the ship, until I judged we had moved out of
earshot of the Sirens. Then I surfaced and our air bubble popped.
I ordered a rope ladder to drop over the side of the ship, and we climbed
aboard.
I kept my earplugs in, just to be sure. We sailed until the island was
completely out of sight. Annabeth sat huddled in a blanket on the forward deck.
Finally she looked up, dazed and sad, and mouthed, Safe.
I took out the earplugs. No singing. The afternoon was quiet except for the
sound of the waves against the hull. The fog had burned away to a blue sky, as if
the island of the Sirens had never existed.
‘You okay?’ I asked. The moment I said it, I realized how lame that sounded.
Of course she wasn’t okay.
‘I didn’t realize,’she murmured.
‘What?’
Her eyes were the same colour as the mist over the Sirens’ island. ‘How
powerful the temptation would be.’
I didn’t want to admit that I’d seen what the Sirens had promised her. I felt
like a trespasser. But I figured I owed it to Annabeth.
‘I saw the way you rebuilt Manhattan,’ I told her. ‘And Luke and your
parents.’
She blushed. ‘You saw that?’
‘What Luke told you back on the Princess Andromeda, about starting the
world from scratch … that really got to you, huh?’
She pulled her blanket around her. ‘My fatal flaw. That’s what the Sirens
showed me. My fatal flaw is hubris.’
I blinked. ‘That brown stuff they spread on veggie sandwiches?’
She rolled her eyes. ‘No, Seaweed Brain. That’s hummus. Hubris is worse.’
‘What could be worse than hummus?’
‘Hubris means deadly pride, Percy. Thinking you can do things better than
anyone else … even the gods.’
‘You feel that way?’
She looked down. ‘Don’t you ever feel like, what if the world really is messed
up? What if we could do it all over again from scratch? No more war. Nobody
homeless. No more summer reading homework.’
‘I’m listening.’
‘I mean, the West represents a lot of the best things mankind ever did – that’s
why the fire is still burning. That’s why Olympus is still around. But sometimes
you just see the bad stuff, you know? And you start thinking the way Luke does:
“If I could tear this all down, I would do it better.” Don’t you ever feel that way?
Like you could do a better job if you ran the world?’
‘Um … no. Me running the world would kind of be a nightmare.’
‘Then you’re lucky. Hubris isn’t your fatal flaw.’
‘What is?’
‘I don’t know, Percy, but every hero has one. If you don’t find it and learn to
control it … well, they don’t call it “fatal” for nothing.’
I thought about that. It didn’t exactly cheer me up.
I also noticed Annabeth hadn’t said much about the personal things she would
change – like getting her parents back together, or saving Luke. I understood. I
didn’t want to admit how many times I’d dreamed of getting my own parents
back together.
I pictured my mom, alone in our little apartment on the Upper East Side. I
tried to remember the smell of her blue waffles in the kitchen. It seemed so far
away.
‘So was it worth it?’ I asked Annabeth. ‘Do you feel … wiser?’
She gazed into the distance. ‘I’m not sure. But we have to save the camp. If
we don’t stop Luke…’
She didn’t need to finish. If Luke’s way of thinking could even tempt
Annabeth, there was no telling how many other half-bloods might join him.
I thought about my dream of the girl and the golden sarcophagus. I wasn’t
sure what it meant, but I got the feeling I was missing something. Something
terrible that Kronos was planning. What had the girl seen when she opened that
coffin lid?
Suddenly Annabeth’s eyes widened. ‘Percy.’
I turned.
Up ahead was another blotch of land – a saddle-shaped island with forested
hills and white beaches and green meadows – just like I’d seen in my dreams.
My nautical senses confirmed it. Thirty degrees, thirty-one minutes north,
seventy-five degrees, twelve minutes west.
We had reached the home of the Cyclops.