CHAPTER 18: My Parents Go Commando
By the time we got to the street, it was too late.
Campers and Hunters lay wounded on the ground. Clarisse must’ve lost a
fight with a Hyperborean giant, because she and her chariot were frozen in a
block of ice. The centaurs were nowhere to be seen. Either they’d panicked and
ran or they’d been disintegrated.
The Titan army ringed the building, standing maybe ten metres from the
doors. Kronos’s vanguard was in the lead – Ethan Nakamura, the dracaena
queen in her green armour and two Hyperboreans. I didn’t see Prometheus. The
slimy weasel was probably hiding back at their headquarters. But Kronos
himself stood right in front with his scythe in hand.
The only thing standing in his way was …
‘Chiron,’ Annabeth said, her voice trembling.
If Chiron heard us, he didn’t answer. He had an arrow notched, aimed straight
at Kronos’s face.
As soon as Kronos saw me, his gold eyes flared. Every muscle in my body
froze. Then the Titan lord turned his attention back to Chiron. ‘Step aside, little
son.’
Hearing Luke call Chiron his son was weird enough, but Kronos put contempt
in his voice, like son was the worst word he could think of.
‘I’m afraid not.’ Chiron’s tone was steely calm, the way he gets when he’s
really angry.
I tried to move, but my feet felt like concrete. Annabeth, Grover and Thalia
were straining, too, like they were just as stuck.
‘Chiron!’ Annabeth said. ‘Look out!’
The dracaena queen became impatient and charged. Chiron’s arrow flew
straight between her eyes and she vaporized on the spot, her empty armour
clattering to the tarmac.
Chiron reached for another arrow, but his quiver was empty. He dropped the
bow and drew his sword. I knew he hated fighting with a sword. It was never his
favourite weapon.
Kronos chuckled. He advanced a step and Chiron’s horse half skittered
nervously. His tail flicked back and forth.
‘You’re a teacher,’ Kronos sneered. ‘Not a hero.’
‘Luke was a hero,’ Chiron said. ‘He was a good one, until you corrupted him.’
‘FOOL!’ Kronos’s voice shook the city. ‘You filled his head with empty
promises. You said the gods cared about me!’
‘Me,’ Chiron noticed. ‘You said me.’
Kronos looked confused, and in that moment, Chiron struck. It was a good
manoeuvre – a feint followed by a strike to the face. I couldn’t have done better
myself, but Kronos was quick. He had all of Luke’s fighting skill, which was a
lot. He knocked aside Chiron’s blade and yelled, ‘BACK!’
A blinding white light exploded between the Titan and the centaur. Chiron
flew into the side of the building with such force the wall crumbled and
collapsed on top of him.
‘No!’ Annabeth wailed. The freezing spell broke. We ran towards our teacher,
but there was no sign of him. Thalia and I pulled helplessly at the bricks while a
ripple of ugly laughter ran through the Titans’ army.
‘YOU!’ Annabeth turned on Luke. ‘To think that I – that I thought –’
She drew her knife.
‘Annabeth, don’t.’ I tried to take her arm, but she shook me off.
She attacked Kronos, and his smug smile faded. Perhaps some part of Luke
remembered that he used to like this girl, used to take care of her when she was
little. She plunged her knife between the straps of his armour, right at his
collarbone. The blade should’ve sunk into his chest. Instead it bounced off.
Annabeth doubled over, clutching her arm to her stomach. The jolt might’ve
been enough to dislocate her bad shoulder.
I yanked her back as Kronos swung his scythe, slicing the air where she’d
been standing.
She fought me and screamed, ‘I HATE you!’ I wasn’t sure who she was
talking to – me or Luke or Kronos. Tears streaked the dust on her face.
‘I have to fight him,’ I told her.
‘It’s my fight, too, Percy!’
Kronos laughed. ‘So much spirit. I can see why Luke wanted to spare you.
Unfortunately, that won’t be possible.’
He raised his scythe. I got ready to defend, but before Kronos could strike, a
dog’s howl pierced the air somewhere behind the Titans’ army. ‘Arroooooooo!’
It was too much to hope, but I called, ‘Mrs O’Leary?’
The enemy forces stirred uneasily. Then the strangest thing happened. They
began to part, clearing a path through the street like something behind them was
forcing them to.
Soon there was a free aisle down the centre of Fifth Avenue. Standing at the
end of the block was my giant dog and a small figure in black armour.
‘Nico?’ I called.
‘ROWWF!’ Mrs O’Leary bounded towards me, ignoring the growling
monsters on either side. Nico strode forward. The enemy army fell back before
him like he radiated death, which of course he did.
Through the face guard of his skull-shaped helmet, he smiled. ‘Got your
message. Is it too late to join the party?’
‘Son of Hades.’ Kronos spat on the ground. ‘Do you love death so much you
wish to experience it?’
‘Your death,’ Nico said, ‘would be great for me.’
‘I’m immortal, you fool! I have escaped Tartarus. You have no business here,
and no chance to live.’
Nico drew his sword – a metre long of wicked sharp Stygian iron, black as a
nightmare. ‘I don’t agree.’
The ground rumbled. Cracks appeared in the road, the sidewalks, the sides of
the buildings. Skeletal hands grasped the air as the dead clawed their way into
the world of the living. There were thousands of them, and as they emerged, the
Titans’ monsters got jumpy and started to back up.
‘HOLD YOUR GROUND!’ Kronos demanded. ‘The dead are no match for
us.’
The sky turned dark and cold. Shadows thickened. A harsh war horn sounded,
and as the dead soldiers formed up ranks with their guns and swords and spears,
an enormous chariot roared down Fifth Avenue. It came to a stop next to Nico.
The horses were living shadows, fashioned from darkness. The chariot was
inlaid with obsidian and gold, decorated with scenes of painful death. Holding
the reins was Hades himself, Lord of the Dead, with Demeter and Persephone
riding behind him.
Hades wore black armour and a cloak the colour of fresh blood. On top of his
pale head was the helm of darkness: a crown that radiated pure terror. It changed
shape as I watched – from a dragon’s head to a circle of black flames to a wreath
of human bones. But that wasn’t the scary part. The helm reached into my mind
and ignited my worst nightmares, my most secret fears. I wanted to crawl into a
hole and hide, and I could tell the enemy army felt the same way. Only Kronos’s
power and authority kept his ranks from fleeing.
Hades smiled coldly. ‘Hello, Father. You’re looking … young.’
‘Hades,’ Kronos growled. ‘I hope you and the ladies have come to pledge your
allegiance.’
‘I’m afraid not.’ Hades sighed. ‘My son here convinced me that perhaps I
should prioritize my list of enemies.’ He glanced at me with distaste. ‘As much
as I dislike certain upstart demigods, it would not do for Olympus to fall. I
would miss bickering with my siblings. And if there is one thing we agree on – it
is that you were a TERRIBLE father.’
‘True,’ muttered Demeter. ‘No appreciation of agriculture.’
‘Mother!’ Persephone complained.
Hades drew his sword, a double-edged Stygian blade etched with silver. ‘Now
fight me! For today the House of Hades will be called the saviours of Olympus.’
‘I don’t have time for this,’ Kronos snarled.
He struck the ground with his scythe. A crack spread in both directions,
circling the Empire State Building. A wall of force shimmered along the fissure
line, separating Kronos’s vanguard, my friends and me from the bulk of the two
armies.
‘What’s he doing?’ I muttered.
‘Sealing us in,’ Thalia said. ‘He’s collapsing the magic barriers around
Manhattan – cutting off just the building, and us.’
Sure enough, outside the barrier, car engines revved to life. Pedestrians woke
up and stared uncomprehendingly at the monsters and zombies all around them.
No telling what they saw through the Mist, but I’m sure it was plenty scary. Car
doors opened. And at the end of the block, Paul Blofis and my mom got out of
their Prius.
‘No,’ I said. ‘Don’t …’
My mother could see through the Mist. I could tell from her expression that
she understood how serious things were. I hoped she would have the sense to
run. But she locked eyes with me, said something to Paul and they ran straight
towards us.
I couldn’t call out. The last thing I wanted to do was bring her to Kronos’s
attention.
Fortunately, Hades caused a distraction. He charged at the wall of force, but
his chariot crashed against it and overturned. He got to his feet, cursing, and
blasted the wall with black energy. The barrier held.
‘ATTACK!’ he roared.
The armies of the dead clashed with the Titans’ monsters. Fifth Avenue
exploded into absolute chaos. Mortals screamed and ran for cover. Demeter
waved her hand and an entire column of giants turned into a wheat field.
Persephone changed the dracaenae’s spears into sunflowers. Nico slashed and
hacked his way through the enemy, trying to protect the pedestrians as best he
could. My parents ran towards me, dodging monsters and zombies, but there was
nothing I could do to help them.
‘Nakamura,’ Kronos said. ‘Attend me. Giants – deal with them.’
He pointed at my friends and me. Then he ducked into the lobby.
For a second, I was stunned. I’d been expecting a fight, but Kronos
completely ignored me like I wasn’t worth the trouble. That made me mad.
The first Hyperborean giant smashed at me with his club. I rolled between his
legs and stabbed Riptide into his backside. He shattered into a pile of ice shards.
The second giant breathed frost at Annabeth, who was barely able to stand, but
Grover pulled her out of the way while Thalia went to work. She sprinted up the
giant’s back like a gazelle, sliced her hunting knives across his monstrous blue
neck, and created the world’s largest headless ice sculpture.
I glanced outside the magic barrier. Nico was fighting his way towards my
mom and Paul, but they weren’t waiting for help. Paul grabbed a sword from a
fallen hero and did a pretty fine job keeping a dracaena busy. He stabbed her in
the gut and she disintegrated.
‘Paul?’ I said in amazement.
He turned towards me and grinned. ‘I hope that was a monster I just killed. I
was a Shakespearian actor in college! Picked up a little swordplay!’
I liked him even better for that, but then a Laistrygonian giant charged
towards my mom. She was rummaging around in an abandoned police car –
maybe looking for the emergency radio – and her back was turned.
‘Mom!’ I yelled.
She whirled when the monster was almost on top of her. I thought the thing in
her hands was an umbrella until she cranked the pump and the shotgun blast
blew the giant five metres backwards, right into Nico’s sword.
‘Nice one,’ Paul said.
‘When did you learn to fire a shotgun?’ I demanded.
My mom blew the hair out of her face. ‘About two seconds ago. Percy, we’ll
be fine. Go!’
‘Yes,’ Nico agreed, ‘we’ll handle the army. You have to get Kronos!’
‘Come on, Seaweed Brain!’ Annabeth said. I nodded. Then I looked at the
rubble pile on the side of the building. My heart twisted. I’d forgotten about
Chiron. How could I do that?
‘Mrs O’Leary,’ I said. ‘Please – Chiron’s under there. If anyone can dig him
out, you can. Find him! Help him!’
I’m not sure how much she understood, but she bounded to the pile and
started to dig. Annabeth, Thalia, Grover and I raced for the elevators.