CHAPTER 16: We Get Help From a Thief
Here’s my definition of not fun. Fly a pegasus towards an out-of-control
helicopter. If Guido had been any less of a fancy flier, we would’ve been
chopped to confetti.
I could hear Rachel screaming inside. For some reason, she hadn’t fallen
asleep, but I could see the pilot slumped over the controls, pitching back and
forth as the helicopter wobbled towards the side of an office building.
‘Ideas?’ I asked Annabeth.
‘You’re going to have to take Guido and get out,’she said.
‘What are you going to do?’
In response, she said, ‘Hyah!’ And Guido went into a nosedive.
‘Duck!’ Annabeth yelled.
We passed so close to the rotors I felt the force of the blades ripping at my
hair. We zipped along the side of the helicopter and Annabeth grabbed the door.
That’s when things went wrong.
Guido’s wing slammed against the helicopter. He plummeted straight down
with me on his back, leaving Annabeth dangling from the side of the aircraft.
I was so terrified I could barely think, but as Guido spiralled I caught a
glimpse of Rachel pulling Annabeth inside the ’copter.
‘Hang in there!’ I yelled at Guido.
My wing, he moaned. It’s busted.
‘You can do it!’ I desperately tried to remember what Silena used to tell us in
pegasus-riding lessons. ‘Just relax the wing. Extend it and glide.’
We fell like a rock – straight towards the pavement a hundred metres below.
At the last moment, Guido extended his wings. I saw the faces of centaurs
gaping up at us. Then we pulled out of our dive, sailed twenty metres and
tumbled onto the pavement – Pegasus over demigod.
Ow! Guido moaned. My legs. My head. My wings.
Chiron galloped over with his medical pouch and began working on the
pegasus.
I got to my feet. When I looked up, my heart crawled into my throat. The
helicopter was only a few seconds away from slamming into the side of the
building.
Then miraculously the helicopter righted itself. It spun in a circle and hovered.
Very slowly, it began to descend.
It seemed to take forever, but finally the helicopter thudded to a landing in the
middle of Fifth Avenue. I looked through the windshield and couldn’t believe
what I was seeing. Annabeth was at the controls.
I ran forward as the rotors spun to a stop. Rachel opened the side door and
dragged out the pilot. Rachel was still dressed like she was on vacation, in beach
shorts, a T-shirt and sandals. Her hair was tangled and her face was green from
the helicopter ride.
Annabeth climbed out last.
I stared at her in awe. ‘I didn’t know you could fly a helicopter.’
‘Neither did I,’ she said. ‘My dad’s crazy into aviation. Plus Daedalus had
some notes on flying machines. I just took my best guess on the controls.’
‘You saved my life,’ Rachel said.
Annabeth flexed her bad shoulder. ‘Yeah, well … Let’s not make a habit of it.
What are you doing here, Dare? Don’t you know better than to fly into a
warzone?’
‘I –’ Rachel glanced at me. ‘I had to be here. I knew Percy was in trouble.’
‘Got that right,’ Annabeth grumbled. ‘Well, if you’ll excuse me, I have some
injured friends I’ve got to tend to. Glad you could stop by, Rachel.’
‘Annabeth –’ I called.
She stormed off.
Rachel plopped down on the kerb and put her head in her hands. ‘I’m sorry,
Percy. I didn’t mean to … I always mess things up.’
It was kind of hard to argue with her, though I was glad she was safe. I looked
in the direction Annabeth had gone, but she’d disappeared into the crowd. I
couldn’t believe what she’d just done – saved Rachel’s life, landed a helicopter
and walked away like it was no big deal.
‘It’s okay,’ I told Rachel, though my words sounded hollow. ‘So what’s the
message you wanted to deliver?’
She frowned. ‘How did you know about that?’
‘A dream.’
Rachel didn’t look surprised. She tugged at her beach shorts. They were
covered in drawings, which wasn’t unusual for her, but these symbols I
recognized: Greek letters, pictures from camp beads, sketches of monsters and
faces of gods. I didn’t understand how Rachel could have known about some of
that. She’d never been to Olympus or Camp Half-Blood.
‘I’ve been seeing things, too,’ she muttered. ‘I mean not just through the Mist.
This is different. I’ve been drawing pictures, writing lines –’
‘In Ancient Greek,’ I said. ‘Do you know what they say?’
‘That’s what I wanted to talk to you about. I was hoping … well, if you had
gone with us on vacation, I was hoping you could have helped me figure out
what’s happening to me.’
She looked at me pleadingly. Her face was sunburnt from the beach. Her nose
was peeling. I couldn’t get over the shock that she was here in person. She’d
forced her family to cut short their vacation, agreed to go to a horrible school
and flown a helicopter into a monster battle just to see me. In her own way, she
was as brave as Annabeth.
But what was happening to her with these visions really freaked me out.
Maybe it was something that happened to all mortals who could see through the
Mist. But my mom had never talked about anything like that. And Hestia’s
words about Luke’s mom kept coming back to me: May Castellan went too far.
She tried to see too much.
‘Rachel,’ I said, ‘I wish I knew. Maybe we should ask Chiron –’
She flinched like she’d got an electric shock. ‘Percy, something is about to
happen. A trick that ends in death.’
‘What do you mean? Whose death?’
‘I don’t know.’ She looked around nervously. ‘Don’t you feel it?’
‘Is that the message you wanted to tell me?’
‘No.’ She hesitated. ‘I’m sorry. I’m not making sense, but that thought just
came to me. The message I wrote on the beach was different. It had your name
in it.’
‘Perseus,’ I remembered. ‘In Ancient Greek.’
Rachel nodded. ‘I don’t know its meaning. But I know it’s important. You
have to hear it. It said: Perseus, you are not the hero.’
I stared at her like she’d just slapped me. ‘You came thousands of miles to tell
me I’m not the hero?’
‘It’s important,’she insisted. ‘It will affect what you do.’
‘Not the hero of the prophecy?’ I asked. ‘Not the hero who defeats Kronos?
What do you mean?’
‘I’m – I’m sorry, Percy. That’s all I know. I had to tell you because –’
‘Well!’ Chiron cantered over. ‘This must be Miss Dare.’
I wanted to yell at him to go away, but of course I couldn’t. I tried to get my
emotions under control. I felt like I had another personal hurricane swirling
around me.
‘Chiron – Rachel Dare,’ I said. ‘Rachel – this is my teacher Chiron.’
‘Hello,’ Rachel said glumly. She didn’t look at all surprised that Chiron was a
centaur.
‘You are not asleep, Miss Dare,’ he noticed. ‘And yet you are mortal?’
‘I’m mortal,’ she agreed, like it was a depressing thought. ‘The pilot fell
asleep as soon as we passed the river. I don’t know why I didn’t. I just knew I
had to be here, to warn Percy.’
‘Warn Percy?’
‘She’s been seeing things,’ I said. ‘Writing lines and making drawings.’
Chiron raised an eyebrow. ‘Indeed? Tell me.’
She told him the same things she’d told me.
Chiron stroked his beard. ‘Miss Dare … perhaps we should talk.’
‘Chiron,’ I blurted. I had a sudden terrible image of Camp Half-Blood in the
1990s, and May Castellan’s scream coming from that attic. ‘You – you’ll help
Rachel, right? I mean, you’ll warn her that she’s got to be careful with this stuff.
Not go too far.’
His tail flicked like it does when he’s anxious. ‘Yes, Percy. I will do my best
to understand what is happening and advise Miss Dare, but this may take some
time. Meanwhile, you should rest. We’ve moved your parents’ car to safety. The
enemy seems to be staying put for now. We’ve set up bunks in the Empire State
Building. Get some sleep.’
‘Everybody keeps telling me to sleep,’ I grumbled. ‘I don’t need sleep.’
Chiron managed a smile. ‘Have you looked at yourself recently, Percy?’
I glanced down at my clothes, which were scorched, burnt, sliced and tattered
from my night of constant battles. ‘I look like death,’ I admitted. ‘But you think I
can sleep after what just happened?’
‘You may be invulnerable in combat,’ Chiron chided, ‘but that only makes
your body tire faster. I remember Achilles. Whenever that lad wasn’t fighting he
was sleeping. He must’ve taken twenty naps a day. You, Percy, need your rest.
You may be our only hope.’
I wanted to complain that I wasn’t their only hope. According to Rachel, I
wasn’t even the hero. But the look in Chiron’s eyes made it clear he wasn’t going
to take no for an answer.
‘Sure,’ I grumbled. ‘Talk.’
I trudged towards the Empire State Building. When I glanced back, Rachel
and Chiron were walking together in earnest conversation, like they were
discussing funeral arrangements.
Inside the lobby, I found an empty bunk and collapsed, sure that I would never
be able to sleep. A second later, my eyes closed.
In my dreams, I was back in Hades’ garden. The Lord of the Dead paced up and
down, holding his ears while Nico followed him, waving his arms.
‘You have to!’ Nico insisted.
Demeter and Persephone sat behind them at the breakfast table. Both of the
goddesses looked bored. Demeter poured shredded wheat into four huge bowls.
Persephone was magically changing the flower arrangement on the table, turning
the blossoms from red to yellow to polka-dotted.
‘I don’t have to do anything!’ Hades’ eyes blazed. ‘I’m a god!’
‘Father,’ Nico said, ‘if Olympus falls, your own palace’s safety doesn’t matter.
You’ll fade, too.’
‘I am not an Olympian!’ he growled. ‘My family has made that quite clear.’
‘You are,’ Nico said. ‘Whether you like it or not.’
‘You saw what they did to your mother,’ Hades said. ‘Zeus killed her. And you
would have me help them? They deserve what they get!’
Persephone sighed. She walked her fingers across the table, absently turning
the silverware into roses. ‘Could we please not talk about that woman?’
‘You know what would help this boy?’ Demeter mused. ‘Farming.’
Persephone rolled her eyes. ‘Mother –’
‘Six months behind a plough. Excellent character building.’
Nico stepped in front of his father, forcing Hades to face him. ‘My mother
understood about family. That’s why she didn’t want to leave us. You can’t just
abandon your family because they did something horrible. You’ve done horrible
things to them, too.’
‘Maria died!’ Hades reminded him.
‘You can’t just cut yourself off from the other gods!’
‘I’ve done very well at it for thousands of years.’
‘And has that made you feel any better?’ Nico demanded. ‘Has that curse on
the Oracle helped you at all? Holding grudges is a fatal flaw. Bianca warned me
about that and she was right.’
‘For demigods! I am immortal, all powerful! I would not help the other gods if
they begged me, if Percy Jackson himself pleaded –’
‘You’re just as much an outcast as I am!’ Nico yelled. ‘Stop being angry about
it and do something helpful for once. That’s the only way they’ll respect you!’
Hades’ palm filled with black fire.
‘Go ahead,’ Nico said. ‘Blast me. That’s just what the other gods would expect
from you. Prove them right.’
‘Yes, please,’ Demeter complained. ‘Shut him up.’
Persephone sighed. ‘Oh, I don’t know. I would rather fight in the war than eat
another bowl of cereal. This is boring.’
Hades roared in anger. His fireball hit a silver tree right next to Nico, melting
it into a pool of liquid metal.
And my dream changed.
I was standing outside the United Nations, about a mile north-east of the
Empire State Building. The Titan army had set up camp all around the UN
complex. The flagpoles were hung with horrible trophies – helmets and armour
pieces from defeated campers. All along First Avenue, giants sharpened their
axes. Telkhines repaired armour at makeshift forges.
Kronos himself paced at the top of the plaza, swinging his scythe so his
dracaenae bodyguards stayed way back. Ethan Nakamura and Prometheus stood
nearby, out of slicing range. Ethan was fidgeting with his shield straps, but
Prometheus looked as calm and collected as ever in his tuxedo.
‘I hate this place,’ Kronos growled. ‘United Nations. As if mankind could ever
unite. Remind me to tear down this building after we destroy Olympus.’
‘Yes, lord.’ Prometheus smiled as if his master’s anger amused him. ‘Shall we
tear down the stables in Central Park, too? I know how much horses can annoy
you.’
‘Don’t mock me, Prometheus! Those cursed centaurs will be sorry they
interfered. I will feed them to the hellhounds, starting with that son of mine –
that weakling Chiron.’
Prometheus shrugged. ‘That weakling destroyed an entire legion of telkhines
with his arrows.’
Kronos swung his scythe and cut a flagpole in half. The national colours of
Brazil toppled into the army, squashing a dracaena.
‘We will destroy them!’ Kronos roared. ‘It is time to unleash the drakon.
Nakamura – you will do this.’
‘Y-yes, lord. At sunset?’
‘No,’ Kronos said. ‘Immediately. The defenders of Olympus are badly
wounded. They will not expect a quick attack. Besides, we know this drakon
they cannot beat.’
Ethan looked confused. ‘My lord?’
‘Never you mind, Nakamura. Just do my bidding. I want Olympus in ruins by
the time Typhon reaches New York. We will break the gods utterly!’
‘But, my lord,’ Ethan said. ‘Your regeneration.’
Kronos pointed at Ethan and the demigod froze.
‘Does it seem,’ Kronos hissed, ‘that I need to regenerate?’
Ethan didn’t respond. Kind of hard to do when you’re immobilized in time.
Kronos snapped his fingers and Ethan collapsed.
‘Soon,’ the Titan growled, ‘this form will be unnecessary. I will not rest with
victory so close. Now go!’
Ethan scrambled away.
‘This is dangerous, my lord,’ Prometheus warned. ‘Do not be hasty.’
‘Hasty? After festering for three thousand years in the depths of Tartarus, you
call me hasty? I will slice Percy Jackson into a thousand pieces.’
‘Thrice you’ve fought him,’ Prometheus pointed out. ‘And yet you’ve always
said it is beneath the dignity of a Titan to fight a mere mortal. I wonder if your
mortal host is influencing you, weakening your judgement.’
Kronos turned his golden eyes on the other Titan. ‘You call me weak?’
‘No, my lord. I only meant –’
‘Are your loyalties divided?’ Kronos asked. ‘Perhaps you miss your old
friends, the gods. Would you like to join them?’ Prometheus paled. ‘I misspoke,
my lord. Your orders will be carried out.’ He turned to the armies and shouted:
‘PREPARE FOR BATTLE!’
The troops began to stir.
From somewhere behind the UN compound, an angry roar shook the city – the
sound of a drakon waking. The noise was so horrible it woke me, and I realized I
could still hear it from a mile away.
Grover stood next to me, looking nervous. ‘What was that?’
‘They’re coming,’ I told him. ‘And we’re in trouble.’
The Hephaestus cabin was out of Greek fire. The Apollo cabin and the Hunters
were scrounging for arrows. Most of us had already ingested so much ambrosia
and nectar we didn’t dare take any more.
We had sixteen campers, fifteen Hunters and half a dozen satyrs left in
fighting shape. The rest had taken refuge on Olympus. The Party Ponies tried to
form ranks, but they staggered and giggled and they all smelled like root beer.
The Texans were head-butting the Coloradoans. The Missouri branch was
arguing with Illinois. The chances were pretty good the whole army would end
up fighting each other rather than the enemy.
Chiron trotted up with Rachel on his back. I felt a twinge of annoyance,
because Chiron rarely gave anyone a ride, and never a mortal.
‘Your friend here has some useful insights, Percy,’ he said.
Rachel blushed. ‘Just some things I saw in my head.’
‘A drakon,’ Chiron said. ‘A Lydian drakon, to be exact. The oldest and most
dangerous kind.’
I stared at her. ‘How did you know that?’
‘I’m not sure,’ Rachel admitted. ‘But this drakon has a particular fate. It will
be killed by a child of Ares.’
Annabeth crossed her arms. ‘How can you possibly know that?’
‘I just saw it. I can’t explain.’
‘Well, let’s hope you’re wrong,’ I said. ‘Because we’re a little short on
children of Ares …’ A horrible thought occurred to me, and I cursed in Ancient
Greek.
‘What?’ Annabeth asked.
‘The spy,’ I told her. ‘Kronos said, “We know they cannot beat this drakon.”
The spy has been keeping him updated. Kronos knows the Ares cabin isn’t with
us. He intentionally picked a monster we can’t kill.’
Thalia scowled. ‘If I ever catch your spy, he’s going to be very sorry. Maybe
we could send another messenger to camp –’
‘I’ve already done it,’ Chiron said. ‘Blackjack is on his way. But if Silena
wasn’t able to convince Clarisse, I doubt Blackjack will be able –’
A roar shook the ground. It sounded very close.
‘Rachel,’ I said, ‘get inside the building.’
‘I want to stay.’
A shadow blotted out the sun. Across the street, the drakon slithered down the
side of a skyscraper. It roared and a thousand windows shattered.
‘On second thoughts,’ Rachel said in a small voice, ‘I’ll be inside.’
Let me explain: there are dragons, and then there are drakons.
Drakons are several millennia older than dragons, and much larger. They look
like giant serpents. Most don’t have wings. Most don’t breathe fire (though some
do). All are poisonous. All are immensely strong, with scales harder than
titanium. Their eyes can paralyse you – not the turn you to stone Medusa-type
paralysis, but the oh my gods that big snake is going to eat me type of paralysis,
which is just as bad.
We have drakon-fighting classes at camp, but there is no way to prepare
yourself for a fifty-metre-long serpent as thick as a school bus slithering down
the side of a building, its yellow eyes like searchlights and its mouth full of
razor-sharp teeth big enough to chew elephants.
It almost made me long for the flying pig.
Meanwhile, the enemy army advanced down Fifth Avenue. We’d done our
best to push cars out of the way to keep the mortals safe, but that just made it
easier for our enemies to approach. The Party Ponies swished their tails
nervously. Chiron galloped up and down their ranks, shouting encouragement to
stand tough and think about victory and root beer, but I figured any second they
would panic and run.
‘I’ll take the drakon.’ My voice came out as a timid squeak. Then I yelled
louder: ‘I’LL TAKE THE DRAKON! Everyone else, hold the line against the
army!’
Annabeth stood next to me. She had pulled her owl helmet low over her face,
but I could tell her eyes were red.
‘Will you help me?’ I asked.
‘That’s what I do,’she said miserably. ‘I help my friends.’
I felt like a complete jerk. I wanted to pull her aside and explain that I didn’t
mean for Rachel to be here, that it wasn’t my idea, but we had no time.
‘Go invisible,’ I said. ‘Look for weak links in its armour while I keep it busy.
Just be careful.’
I whistled. ‘Mrs O’Leary, heel!’
‘ROOOF!’ My hellhound leaped over a line of centaurs and gave me a kiss
that smelled suspiciously of pepperoni pizza.
I drew my sword and we charged the monster.
The drakon was three stories above us, slithering sideways along the building as
it sized up our forces. Wherever it looked, centaurs froze in fear.
From the north, the enemy army crashed into the Party Ponies and our lines
broke. The drakon lashed out, swallowing three Californian centaurs in one gulp
before I could even get close.
Mrs O’Leary launched herself through the air – a deadly black shadow with
teeth and claws. Normally, a pouncing hellhound is a terrifying sight, but next to
the drakon Mrs O’Leary looked like a child’s night-night doll.
Her claws raked harmlessly off the drakon’s scales. She bit the monster’s
throat, but couldn’t make a dent. Her weight, however, was enough to knock the
drakon off the side of the building. It flailed awkwardly and crashed to the
sidewalk – hellhound and serpent twisting and thrashing. The drakon tried to bite
Mrs O’Leary, but she was too close to the serpent’s mouth. Poison spewed
everywhere, melting centaurs into dust along with quite a few monsters, but Mrs
O’Leary weaved around the serpent’s head, scratching and biting.
‘YAAAH!’ I plunged Riptide deep into the monster’s left eye. The spotlight
went dark. The drakon hissed and reared back to strike, but I rolled aside.
It bit a swimming-pool-sized chunk out of the pavement. It turned towards me
with its good eye and I focused on its teeth so I wouldn’t get paralysed. Mrs
O’Leary did her best to cause a distraction. She leaped onto the serpent’s head
and scratched and growled like a really angry black wig.
The rest of the battle wasn’t going well. Centaurs panicked under the
onslaught of giants and demons. An occasional orange camp T-shirt appeared in
the sea of fighting, but it quickly disappeared. Arrows screamed. Fire exploded
in waves across both armies, but the action was moving across the street to the
entrance of the Empire State Building. We were losing ground.
Suddenly Annabeth materialized on the drakon’s back. Her invisibility cap
rolled off her head as she drove her bronze knife between a chink in the serpent’s
scales.
The drakon roared. It coiled around, knocking Annabeth off its back.
I reached her just as she hit the ground. I dragged her out of the way as the
serpent rolled, crushing a lamppost right where she’d been.
‘Thanks,’she said.
‘I told you to be careful!’
‘Yeah, well – DUCK!’
It was her turn to save me. She tackled me as the monster’s teeth snapped
above my head. Mrs O’Leary body-slammed the drakon’s face to get its
attention and we rolled out of the way.
Meanwhile, our allies had retreated to the doors of the Empire State Building.
The entire enemy army was surrounding them.
We were out of options. No more help was coming. Annabeth and I would
have to retreat before we were cut off from Mount Olympus.
Then I heard a rumbling in the south. It wasn’t a sound you hear much in New
York, but I recognized it immediately: chariot wheels.
A girl’s voice yelled, ‘ARES!’
And a dozen war chariots charged into battle. Each flew a red banner with the
symbol of the wild boar’s head. Each was pulled by a team of skeletal horses
with manes of fire. A total of thirty fresh warriors, armour gleaming and eyes
full of hate, lowered their lances as one – making a bristling wall of death.
‘The children of Ares!’ Annabeth said in amazement. ‘How did Rachel
know?’
I didn’t have an answer. But leading the charge was a girl in familiar red
armour, her face covered by a boar’s head helm. She held aloft a spear that
crackled with electricity. Clarisse herself had come to the rescue. While half her
chariots charged the monster army, Clarisse led the other six straight for the
drakon.
The serpent reared back and managed to throw off Mrs O’Leary. My poor pet
hit the side of the building with a yelp. I ran to help her, but the serpent had
already zeroed in on the new threat. Even with only one eye, its glare was
enough to paralyse two chariot drivers. They veered into a line of cars. The other
four chariots kept charging. The monster bared its fangs to strike and got a
mouthful of celestial bronze javelins.
‘EEESSSSS!’ it screamed, which was probably drakon for OWWWW!
‘Ares, to me!’ Clarisse screamed. Her voice sounded shriller than usual, but I
guess that wasn’t surprising given what she was fighting.
Across the street, the arrival of six chariots gave the Party Ponies new hope.
They rallied at the doors of the Empire State Building, and the enemy army was
momentarily thrown into confusion.
Meanwhile, Clarisse’s chariots circled the drakon. Lances broke against the
monster’s skin. Skeletal horses breathed fire and whinnied. Two more chariots
overturned, but the warriors simply leaped to their feet, drew their swords and
went to work. They hacked at chinks in the creature’s scales. They dodged
poison spray like they’d been training for this all their lives, which of course
they had.
No one could say the Ares campers weren’t brave. Clarisse was right there in
front, stabbing her spear at the drakon’s face, trying to put out its other eye. But,
as I watched, things started to go wrong. The drakon snapped up one Ares
camper in a gulp. It knocked aside another and sprayed poison on a third, who
retreated in a panic, his armour melting.
‘We have to help,’ Annabeth said.
She was right. I’d just been standing there frozen in amazement. Mrs O’Leary
tried to get up but yelped again. One of her paws was bleeding.
‘Stay back, girl,’ I told her. ‘You’ve done enough already.’
Annabeth and I jumped onto the monster’s back and ran towards its head,
trying to draw its attention away from Clarisse.
Her cabin mates threw javelins, most of which broke, but some lodged in the
monster’s teeth. It snapped its jaws together until its mouth was a mess of green
blood, yellow foamy poison and splintered weapons.
‘You can do it!’ I screamed at Clarisse. ‘A child of Ares is destined to kill it!’
Through her war helmet, I could only see her eyes – but I could tell something
was wrong. Her blue eyes shone with fear. Clarisse never looked like that. And
she didn’t have blue eyes.
‘ARES!’ she shouted, in that strangely shrill voice. She levelled her spear and
charged the drakon.
‘No,’ I muttered. ‘WAIT!’
But the monster looked down at her – almost in contempt – and spat poison
directly in her face.
She screamed and fell.
‘Clarisse!’ Annabeth jumped off the monster’s back and ran to help while the
other Ares campers tried to defend their fallen counsellor. I drove Riptide
between two of the creature’s scales and managed to turn its attention on me.
I got thrown but I landed on my feet. ‘C’MON, you stupid worm! Look at
me!’
For the next several minutes, all I saw were teeth. I retreated and dodged
poison, but I couldn’t hurt the thing.
At the edge of my vision, I saw a flying chariot land on Fifth Avenue.
Then someone ran towards us. A girl’s voice, shaken with grief, cried, ‘NO!
Curse you, WHY?’
I dared to glance over, but what I saw made no sense. Clarisse was lying on
the ground where she’d fallen. Her armour smoked with poison. Annabeth and
the Ares campers were trying to unfasten her helmet. And kneeling next to them,
her face blotchy with tears, was a girl in camp clothes. It was … Clarisse.
My head spun. Why hadn’t I noticed before? The girl in Clarisse’s armour was
much thinner, not as tall. But why would someone pretend to be Clarisse?
I was so stunned the drakon almost snapped me in half. I dodged and the beast
buried its head in a brick wall.
‘WHY?’ the real Clarisse demanded, holding the other girl in her arms while
the campers struggled to remove the poison-corroded helmet.
Chris Rodriguez ran over from the flying chariot. He and Clarisse must’ve
ridden it here from camp, chasing the Ares campers, who’d mistakenly been
following the other girl, thinking she was Clarisse. But it still made no sense.
The drakon tugged its head from the brick wall and screamed in rage.
‘Look out!’ Chris warned.
Instead of turning towards me, the drakon whirled towards the sound of
Chris’s voice. It bared its fangs at the group of demigods.
The real Clarisse looked up at the drakon. Her face filled with absolute hate.
I’d seen a look that intense only once before. Her father Ares had worn the same
expression when I’d fought him in single combat.
‘YOU WANT DEATH?’ Clarisse screamed at the drakon. ‘WELL, COME
ON!’
She grabbed her spear from the fallen girl. With no armour or shield, she
charged the drakon.
I tried to close the distance to help, but Clarisse was faster. She leaped aside as
the monster struck, pulverizing the ground in front of her. Then she jumped onto
the creature’s head. As it reared up, she drove her electric spear into its good eye
with so much force it shattered the shaft, releasing all of the magic weapon’s
power.
Electricity arced across the creature’s head, causing its whole body to shudder.
Clarisse jumped free, rolling safely to the sidewalk as smoke boiled from the
drakon’s mouth. The drakon’s flesh dissolved, and it collapsed into a hollow
scaly tunnel of armour.
The rest of us stared at Clarisse in awe. I had never seen anyone take down
such a huge monster single-handedly. But Clarisse didn’t seem to care. She ran
back to the wounded girl who’d stolen her armour.
Finally Annabeth managed to remove the girl’s helmet. We all gathered
around – the Ares campers, Chris, Clarisse, Annabeth and me. The battle still
raged along Fifth Avenue, but for that moment nothing existed except our small
circle and the fallen girl.
Her features, once beautiful, were badly burned from poison. I could tell that
no amount of nectar or ambrosia would save her.
Something is about to happen. Rachel’s words rang in my ears. A trick that
ends in death.
Now I knew what she meant, and I knew who had led the Ares cabin into
battle.
I looked down at the dying face of Silena Beauregard.