CHAPTER 4: My Mother Teaches Me Bullfighting
We tore through the night along dark country roads. Wind slammed against the
Camaro. Rain lashed the windshield. I didn’t know how my mom could see
anything, but she kept her foot on the gas.
Every time there was a flash of lightning, I looked at Grover sitting next to me
in the backseat and I wondered if I’d gone insane, or if he was wearing some
kind of shag-carpet trousers. But, no, the smell was one I remembered from
kindergarten field trips to the petting zoo – lanolin, like from wool. The smell of
a wet barnyard animal.
All I could think to say was, ‘So, you and my mum… know each other?’
Grover’s eyes flitted to the rearview mirror, though there were no cars behind
us. ‘Not exactly,’ he said. ‘I mean, we’ve never met in person. But she knew I
was watching you.’
‘Watching me?’
‘Keeping tabs on you. Making sure you were okay. But I wasn’t faking being
your friend,’ he added hastily. ‘I am your friend.’
‘Um… what are you, exactly?’
‘That doesn’t matter right now.’
‘It doesn’t matter? From the waist down, my best friend is a donkey –’
Grover let out a sharp, throaty ‘Blaa-ha-ha!’
I’d heard him make that sound before, but I’d always assumed it was a
nervous laugh. Now I realized it was more of an irritated bleat.
‘Goat!’ he cried.
‘What?’
‘I’m a goat from the waist down.’
‘You just said it didn’t matter.’
‘Blaa-ha-ha! There are satyrs who would trample you under hoof for such an
insult!’
‘Whoa. Wait. Satyrs. You mean like… Mr Brunner’s myths?’
‘Were those old ladies at the fruit stand a myth, Percy? Was Mrs Dodds a
myth?’
‘So you admit there was a Mrs Dodds!’
‘Of course.’
‘Then why –’
‘The less you knew, the fewer monsters you’d attract,’ Grover said, like that
should be perfectly obvious. ‘We put Mist over the humans’ eyes. We hoped
you’d think the Kindly One was a hallucination. But it was no good. You started
to realize who you are.’
‘Who I – wait a minute, what do you mean?’
The weird bellowing noise rose up again somewhere behind us, closer than
before. Whatever was chasing us was still on our trail.
‘Percy,’ my mom said, ‘there’s too much to explain and not enough time. We
have to get you to safety.’
‘Safety from what? Who’s after me?’
‘Oh, nobody much,’ Grover said, obviously still miffed about the donkey
comment. ‘Just the Lord of the Dead and a few of his blood-thirstiest minions.’
‘Grover!’
‘Sorry, Mrs Jackson. Could you drive faster, please?’
I tried to wrap my mind around what was happening, but I couldn’t do it. I
knew this wasn’t a dream. I had no imagination. I could never dream up
something this weird.
My mom made a hard left. We swerved onto a narrower road, racing past
darkened farmhouses and wooded hills and PICK YOUR OWN
STRAWBERRIES signs on white picket fences.
‘Where are we going?’ I asked.
‘The summer camp I told you about.’ My mother’s voice was tight; she was
trying for my sake not to be scared. ‘The place your father wanted to send you.’
‘The place you didn’t want me to go.’
‘Please, dear,’ my mother begged. ‘This is hard enough. Try to understand.
You’re in danger.’
‘Because some old ladies cut yarn.’
‘Those weren’t old ladies,’ Grover said. ‘Those were the Fates. Do you know
what it means – the fact they appeared in front of you? They only do that when
you’re about to… when someone’s about to die.’
‘Whoa. You said “you”.’
‘No I didn’t. I said “someone”.’
‘You meant “you”. As in me.’
‘I meant you, like “someone”. Not you, you.’
‘Boys!’ my mom said.
She pulled the wheel hard to the right, and I got a glimpse of a figure she’d
swerved to avoid – a dark fluttering shape now lost behind us in the storm.
‘What was that?’ I asked.
‘We’re almost there,’ my mother said, ignoring my question. ‘Another mile.
Please. Please. Please.’
I didn’t know where there was, but I found myself leaning forward in the car,
anticipating, wanting us to arrive.
Outside, nothing but rain and darkness – the kind of empty countryside you
get way out on the tip of Long Island. I thought about Mrs Dodds and the
moment when she’d changed into the thing with pointed teeth and leathery
wings. My limbs went numb from delayed shock. She really hadn’t been human.
She’d meant to kill me.
Then I thought about Mr Brunner… and the sword he had thrown me. Before
I could ask Grover about that, the hair rose on the back of my neck. There was a
blinding flash, a jaw-rattling boom!, and our car exploded.
I remember feeling weightless, like I was being crushed, fried and hosed down
all at the same time.
I peeled my forehead off the back of the driver’s seat and said, ‘Ow.’
‘Percy!’ my mom shouted.
‘I’m okay….’
I tried to shake off the daze. I wasn’t dead. The car hadn’t really exploded.
We’d swerved into a ditch. Our driver’s-side doors were wedged in the mud. The
roof had cracked open like an eggshell and rain was pouring in.
Lightning. That was the only explanation. We’d been blasted right off the
road. Next to me in the backseat was a big motionless lump. ‘Grover!’
He was slumped over, blood trickling from the side of his mouth. I shook his
furry hip, thinking, No! Even if you are half barnyard animal, you’re my best
friend and I don’t want you to die!
Then he groaned, ‘Food,’ and I knew there was hope.
‘Percy,’ my mother said, ‘we have to…’ Her voice faltered.
I looked back. In a flash of lightning, through the mud-spattered rear
windshield, I saw a figure lumbering towards us on the shoulder of the road. The
sight of it made my skin crawl. It was a dark silhouette of a huge guy, like a
football player. He seemed to be holding a blanket over his head. His top half
was bulky and fuzzy. His upraised hands made it look like he had horns.
I swallowed hard. ‘Who is –’
‘Percy,’ my mother said, deadly serious. ‘Get out of the car.’
My mother threw herself against the driver’s-side door. It was jammed shut in
the mud. I tried mine. Stuck too. I looked up desperately at the hole in the roof.
It might’ve been an exit, but the edges were sizzling and smoking.
‘Climb out the passenger’s side!’ my mother told me. ‘Percy – you have to
run. Do you see that big tree?’
‘What?’
Another flash of lightning, and through the smoking hole in the roof I saw the
tree she meant: a huge, White House Christmas-tree-sized pine at the crest of the
nearest hill.
‘That’s the property line,’ my mom said. ‘Get over that hill and you’ll see a
big farmhouse down in the valley. Run and don’t look back. Yell for help. Don’t
stop until you reach the door.’
‘Mom, you’re coming, too.’
Her face was pale, her eyes as sad as when she looked at the ocean.
‘No!’ I shouted. ‘You are coming with me. Help me carry Grover.’
‘Food!’ Grover moaned, a little louder.
The man with the blanket on his head kept coming towards us, making his
grunting, snorting noises. As he got closer, I realized he couldn’t be holding a
blanket over his head, because his hands – huge meaty hands – were swinging at
his sides. There was no blanket. Meaning the bulky, fuzzy mass that was too big
to be his head… was his head. And the points that looked like horns…
‘He doesn’t want us,’ my mother told me. ‘He wants you. Besides, I can’t
cross the property line.’
‘But…’
‘We don’t have time, Percy. Go. Please.’
I got mad, then – mad at my mother, at Grover the goat, at the thing with
horns that was lumbering towards us slowly and deliberately like, like a bull.
I climbed across Grover and pushed the door open into the rain. ‘We’re going
together. Come on, Mom.’
‘I told you –’
‘Mom! I am not leaving you. Help me with Grover.’
I didn’t wait for her answer. I scrambled outside, dragging Grover from the
car. He was surprisingly light, but I couldn’t have carried him very far if my
mom hadn’t come to my aid.
Together, we draped Grover’s arms over our shoulders and started stumbling
uphill through wet waist-high grass.
Glancing back, I got my first clear look at the monster. He was seven feet tall,
easy, his arms and legs like something from the cover of Muscle Man magazine
– bulging biceps and triceps and a bunch of other ‘ceps, all stuffed like baseballs
under vein-webbed skin. He wore no clothes except underwear – I mean, bright
white Fruit-of-the-Looms, which would’ve been funny except for the top half of
his body. Coarse brown hair started at about his bellybutton and got thicker as it
reached his shoulders.
His neck was a mass of muscle and fur leading up to his enormous head,
which had a snout as long as my arm, snotty nostrils with a gleaming brass ring,
cruel black eyes, and horns – enormous black-and-white horns with points you
just couldn’t get from an electric sharpener.
I recognized the monster, all right. He had been in one of the first stories Mr
Brunner told us. But he couldn’t be real.
I blinked the rain out of my eyes. ‘That’s –’
‘Pasiphae’s son,’ my mother said. ‘I wish I’d known how badly they want to
kill you.’
‘But a he’s a min–’
‘Don’t say his name,’she warned. ‘Names have power.’
The pine tree was still way too far – a hundred metres uphill at least.
I glanced behind me again.
The bull-man hunched over our car, looking in the windows – or not looking,
exactly. More like snuffling, nuzzling. I wasn’t sure why he bothered, since we
were only about fifteen metres away.
‘Food?’ Grover moaned.
‘Shhh,’ I told him. ‘Mom, what’s he doing? Doesn’t he see us?’
‘His sight and hearing are terrible,’ she said. ‘He goes by smell. But he’ll
figure out where we are soon enough.’
As if on cue, the bull-man bellowed in rage. He picked up Gabe’s Camaro by
the torn roof, the chassis creaking and groaning. He raised the car over his head
and threw it down the road. It slammed into the wet asphalt and skidded in a
shower of sparks for about half a mile before coming to a stop. The gas tank
exploded.
Not a scratch, I remembered Gabe saying.
Oops.
‘Percy,’ my mom said. ‘When he sees us, he’ll charge. Wait until the last
second, then jump out of the way – directly sideways. He can’t change direction
very well once he’s charging. Do you understand?’
‘How do you know all this?’
‘I’ve been worried about an attack for a long time. I should have expected
this. I was selfish, keeping you near me.’
‘Keeping me near you? But –’
Another bellow of rage, and the bull-man started tromping uphill.
He’d smelled us.
The pine tree was only a few more metres, but the hill was getting steeper and
slicker, and Grover wasn’t getting any lighter.
The bull-man closed in. Another few seconds and he’d be on top of us.
My mother must’ve been exhausted, but she shouldered Grover. ‘Go, Percy!
Separate! Remember what I said.’
I didn’t want to split up, but I had the feeling she was right – it was our only
chance. I sprinted to the left, turned, and saw the creature bearing down on me.
His black eyes glowed with hate. He reeked like rotten meat.
He lowered his head and charged, those razor-sharp horns aimed straight at
my chest.
The fear in my stomach made me want to bolt, but that wouldn’t work. I could
never outrun this thing. So I held my ground, and at the last moment, I jumped to
the side.
The bull-man stormed past like a freight train, then bellowed with frustration
and turned, but not towards me this time, towards my mother, who was setting
Grover down in the grass.
We’d reached the crest of the hill. Down the other side I could see a valley,
just as my mother had said, and the lights of a farmhouse glowing yellow
through the rain. But that was half a mile away. We’d never make it.
The bull-man grunted, pawing the ground. He kept eyeing my mother, who
was now retreating slowly downhill, back towards the road, trying to lead the
monster away from Grover.
‘Run, Percy!’she told me. ‘I can’t go any further. Run!’
But I just stood there, frozen in fear, as the monster charged her. She tried to
sidestep, as she’d told me to do, but the monster had learned his lesson. His hand
shot out and grabbed her by the neck as she tried to get away. He lifted her as she
struggled, kicking and pummelling the air.
‘Mom!’
She caught my eyes, managed to choke out one last word: ‘Go!’
Then, with an angry roar, the monster closed his fists around my mother’s
neck, and she dissolved before my eyes, melting into light, a shimmering golden
form, as if she were a holographic projection. A blinding flash, and she was
simply… gone.
‘No!’
Anger replaced my fear. Newfound strength burned in my limbs – the same
rush of energy I’d got when Mrs Dodds grew talons.
The bull-man bore down on Grover, who lay helpless in the grass. The
monster hunched over, snuffling my best friend, as if he were about to lift
Grover up and make him dissolve too.
I couldn’t allow that.
I stripped off my red rain jacket.
‘HEY!’ I screamed, waving the jacket, running to one side of the monster.
‘Hey, stupid! Ground beef!’
‘Raaaarrrrr!’ The monster turned towards me, shaking his meaty fists.
I had an idea – a stupid idea, but better than no idea at all. I put my back to the
big pine tree and waved my red jacket in front of the bull-man, thinking I’d jump
out of the way at the last moment.
But it didn’t happen like that.
The bull-man charged too fast, his arms out to grab me whichever way I tried
to dodge.
Time slowed down.
My legs tensed. I couldn’t jump sideways, so I leaped straight up, kicking off
from the creature’s head, using it as a springboard, turning in midair and landing
on his neck.
How did I do that? I didn’t have time to figure it out. A millisecond later, the
monster’s head slammed into the tree and the impact nearly knocked my teeth
out.
The bull-man staggered around, trying to shake me. I locked my arms around
his horns to keep from being thrown. Thunder and lightning were still going
strong. The rain was in my eyes. The smell of rotten meat burned my nostrils.
The monster shook himself around and bucked like a rodeo bull. He should
have just backed up into the tree and smashed me flat, but I was starting to
realize that this thing had only one gear: forward.
Meanwhile, Grover started groaning in the grass. I wanted to yell at him to
shut up, but the way I was getting tossed around, if I opened my mouth I’d bite
my own tongue off.
‘Food!’ Grover moaned.
The bull-man wheeled towards him, pawed the ground again, and got ready to
charge. I thought about how he had squeezed the life out of my mother, made her
disappear in a flash of light, and rage filled me like high-octane fuel. I got both
hands around one horn and I pulled backwards with all my might. The monster
tensed, gave a surprised grunt, then – snap!
The bull-man screamed and flung me through the air. I landed flat on my back
in the grass. My head smacked against a rock. When I sat up, my vision was
blurry, but I had a horn in my hands, a ragged bone weapon the size of a knife.
The monster charged.
Without thinking, I rolled to one side and came up kneeling. As the monster
barrelled past, I drove the broken horn straight into his side, right up under his
furry rib cage.
The bull-man roared in agony. He flailed, clawing at his chest, then began to
disintegrate – not like my mother, in a flash of golden light, but like crumbling
sand, blown away in chunks by the wind, the same way Mrs Dodds had burst
apart.
The monster was gone.
The rain had stopped. The storm still rumbled, but only in the distance. I
smelled like livestock and my knees were shaking. My head felt like it was
splitting open. I was weak and scared and trembling with grief. I’d just seen my
mother vanish. I wanted to lie down and cry, but there was Grover, needing my
help, so I managed to haul him up and stagger down into the valley, towards the
lights of the farmhouse. I was crying, calling for my mother, but I held on to
Grover – I wasn’t going to let him go.
The last thing I remember is collapsing on a wooden porch, looking up at a
ceiling fan circling above me, moths flying around a yellow light and the stern
faces of a familiar-looking bearded man and a pretty girl, her blonde hair curled
like Cinderella’s. They both looked down at me, and the girl said, ‘He’s the one.
He must be.’
‘Silence, Annabeth,’ the man said. ‘He’s still conscious. Bring him inside.’