CHAPTER 18: Grover Causes a Stampede
Distance was shorter in the Labyrinth. Still, by the time Rachel got us back to
Times Square, I felt like we’d pretty much run all the way from New Mexico.
We climbed out of the Marriott basement and stood on the sidewalk in the bright
summer daylight, squinting at the traffic and crowds.
I couldn’t decide which seemed less real – New York or the crystal cave
where I’d watched a god die.
I led the way into an alley, where I could get a nice echo. Then I whistled as
loud as I could, five times.
A minute later, Rachel gasped. ‘They’re beautiful!’
A flock of pegasi descended from the sky, swooping between the skyscrapers.
Blackjack was in the lead, followed by four of his white friends.
Yo, boss! He spoke in my mind. You lived!
‘Yeah,’ I told him. ‘I’m lucky that way. Listen, we need a ride to camp quick.’
That’s my speciality! Oh man, you got that Cyclops with you? Yo, Guide!
How’s your back holding up?
The pegasus Guido groaned and complained, but eventually he agreed to carry
Tyson. Everybody started saddling up – except Rachel.
‘Well,’she told me, ‘I guess this is it.’
I nodded uncomfortably. We both knew she couldn’t go to camp. I glanced at
Annabeth, who was pretending to be very busy with her pegasus.
‘Thanks, Rachel,’ I said. ‘We couldn’t have done it without you.’
‘I wouldn’t have missed it. I mean, except for almost dying, and Pan…’ Her
voice faltered.
‘He said something about your father,’ I remembered. ‘What did he mean?’
Rachel twisted the strap on her backpack. ‘My dad… My dad’s job. He’s kind
of a famous businessman.’
‘You mean … you’re rich?’
‘Well, yeah.’
‘So that’s how you got the chauffeur to help us? You just said your dad’s name
and –’
‘Yes,’ Rachel cut me off. ‘Percy… my dad’s a land developer. He flies all over
the world, looking for tracts of undeveloped land.’ She took a shaky breath. ‘The
wild. He – he buys it up. I hate it, but he ploughs it down and builds ugly
subdivisions and shopping centres. And now that I’ve seen Pan… Pan’s death –’
‘Hey, you can’t blame yourself for that.’
‘You don’t know the worst of it. I – I don’t like to talk about my family. I
didn’t want you to know. I’m sorry. I shouldn’t have said anything.’
‘No,’ I said. ‘It’s cool. Look, Rachel, you were awesome. You led us through
the maze. You were so brave. That’s the only thing I’m going to judge you on. I
don’t care what your dad does.’
Rachel looked at me gratefully. ‘Well… if you ever feel like hanging out with
a mortal again… you could call me or something.’
‘Uh, yeah. Sure.’
She knitted her eyebrows. I guess I sounded unenthusiastic or something, but
that’s not how I meant it. I just wasn’t sure what to say with all my friends
standing around. And I guess my feelings had got pretty mixed up, the last
couple of days.
‘I mean… I’d like that,’ I said.
‘My number’s not in the book,’she said.
‘I’ve got it.’
‘Still on your hand? No way.’
‘No. I kinda… memorized it.’
Her smile came back slowly, but a lot happier. ‘See you later, Percy Jackson.
Go save the world for me, okay?’
She walked off down Seventh Avenue and disappeared into the crowds.
When I got back to the horses, Nico was having trouble. His pegasus kept shying
away from him, reluctant to let him mount.
He smells like dead people! the pegasus complained.
Hey now, Blackjack said. Come on, Porkpie. Lotsa demigods smell weird. It
ain’t their fault. Oh – uh, I didn’t mean you, boss.
‘Go without me!’ Nico said. ‘I don’t want to go back to that camp anyway.’
‘Nico,’ I said, ‘we need your help.’
He folded his arms and scowled. Then Annabeth put her hand on his shoulder.
‘Nico,’she said. ‘Please.’
Slowly, his expression softened. ‘All right,’ he said reluctantly. ‘For you. But
I’m not staying.’
I raised an eyebrow at Annabeth, like, How come all of a sudden Nico listens
to you? She stuck her tongue out at me.
At last we got everybody on a pegasus. We shot into the air, and soon we were
over the East River, with Long Island spread out before us.
We landed in the middle of the cabin area and were immediately met by Chiron,
the potbellied satyr Silenus and a couple of Apollo cabin archers. Chiron raised
an eyebrow when he saw Nico, but if I expected him to be surprised by our latest
news about Quintus being Daedalus, or Kronos rising, I was mistaken.
‘I feared as much,’ Chiron said. ‘We must hurry. Hopefully you have slowed
down the Titan lord, but his vanguard will still be coming through. They will be
anxious for blood. Most of our defenders are already in place. Come!’
‘Wait a moment,’ Silenus demanded. ‘What of the search for Pan? You are
almost three weeks overdue, Grover Underwood! Your searcher’s licence is
revoked!’
Grover took a deep breath. He stood up straight and looked Silenus in the eye.
‘Searchers’ licences don’t matter any more. The great god Pan is dead. He has
passed on and left us his spirit.’
‘What?’ Silenus’s face turned bright red. ‘Sacrilege and lies! Grover
Underwood, I will have you exiled for speaking thus!’
‘It’s true,’ I said. ‘We were there when he died. All of us.’
‘Impossible! You are all liars! Nature-destroyers!’
Chiron studied Grover’s face. ‘We will speak of this later.’
‘We will speak of it now!’ Silenus said. ‘We must deal with this –’
‘Silenus,’ Chiron cut in. ‘My camp is under attack. The matter of Pan has
waited two thousand years. I fear it will have to wait a bit longer. Assuming we
are still here this evening.’
And on that happy note, he readied his bow and galloped towards the woods,
leaving us to follow as best we could.
It was the biggest military operation I’d ever seen at camp. Everyone was at the
clearing, dressed in full battle armour, but this time it wasn’t for capture the flag.
The Hephaestus cabin had set up traps around the entrance to the Labyrinth –
razor wire, pits filled with pots of Greek fire, rows of sharpened sticks to deflect
a charge. Beckendorf was manning two catapults the size of pickup trucks,
already primed and aimed at Zeus’s Fist. The Ares cabin was on the front line,
drilling in phalanx formation with Clarisse calling orders. Apollo’s and Hermes’s
cabins were scattered in the woods with bows ready. Many had taken up
positions in the trees. Even the dryads were armed with bows, and the satyrs
trotted around with wooden cudgels and shields made of rough tree bark.
Annabeth went to join her brethren from the Athena cabin, who had set up a
command tent and were directing operations. A grey banner with an owl
fluttered outside the tent. Our security chief, Argus, stood guard at the door.
Aphrodite’s children were running around, straightening everybody’s armour
and offering to comb the tangles out of our horsehair plumes. Even Dionysus’s
kids had found something to do. The god himself was still nowhere to be seen,
but his two blond twin sons were running around, providing all the sweaty
warriors with water bottles and juice boxes.
It looked like a pretty good set-up, but Chiron muttered next to me, ‘It isn’t
enough.’
I thought about what I’d seen in the Labyrinth, all the monsters in Antaeus’s
stadium and the power of Kronos I’d felt on Mount Tam. My heart sank. Chiron
was right, but it was all we could muster. For once I wished Dionysus were here,
but even if he had been, I didn’t know if he could have done anything. When it
came to war, gods were forbidden to interfere directly. Apparently, the Titans
didn’t believe in restrictions like that.
Over at the edge of the clearing, Grover was talking to Juniper. She held his
hands while he told her our story. Green tears formed in her eyes as he delivered
the news about Pan.
Tyson helped the Hephaestus kids prepare the defences. He picked up
boulders and piled them next to the catapults for firing.
‘Stay with me, Percy,’ Chiron said. ‘When the fighting begins, I want you to
wait until we know what we’re dealing with. You must go where we most need
reinforcements.’
‘I saw Kronos,’ I said, still stunned by the fact. ‘I looked straight into his eyes.
It was Luke… but it wasn’t.’
Chiron ran his fingers along his bowstring. ‘He had golden eyes, I would
guess. And in his presence, time seemed to turn to liquid.’
I nodded. ‘How could he take over a mortal body?’
‘I do not know, Percy. Gods have assumed the shapes of mortals for ages, but
to actually become one… to merge the divine form with the mortal. I don’t know
how this could be done without Luke’s form turning to ashes.’
‘Kronos said his body had been prepared.’
‘I shudder to think what that means. But perhaps it will limit Kronos’s power.
For a time, at least, he is confined to a human form. It binds him together.
Hopefully it also restricts him.’
‘Chiron, if he leads this attack –’
‘I do not think so, my boy. I would sense if he were drawing near. No doubt he
planned to, but I believe you inconvenienced him when you pulled his throne
room down on top of him.’ He looked at me reproachfully. ‘You and your friend
Nico, son of Hades.’
A lump formed in my throat. ‘I’m sorry, Chiron. I know I should’ve told you.
It’s just –’
Chiron raised his hand. ‘I understand why you did it, Percy. You felt
responsible. You sought to protect him. But, my boy, if we are to survive this, we
must trust each other. We must…’
His voice wavered. The ground underneath us was trembling.
Everyone in the clearing stopped what they were doing. Clarisse barked a
single order: ‘Lock shields!’
Then the Titan lord’s army exploded from the Labyrinth.
I’d been in fights before, but this was a full-scale battle. The first thing I saw
were a dozen Laistrygonian giants erupting from the ground, yelling so loudly
my ears felt like bursting. They carried shields made from flattened cars, and
clubs that were tree trunks with rusty spikes bristling at the end. One of the
giants bellowed at the Ares phalanx, smashed it sideways with his club, and the
entire cabin was thrown aside, a dozen warriors tossed to the wind like rag dolls.
‘Fire!’ Beckendorf yelled. The catapults swung into action. Two boulders
hurtled towards the giants. One deflected off a car shield with hardly a dent, but
the other caught a Laistrygonian in the chest, and the giant went down. Apollo’s
archers fired a volley, dozens of arrows sticking in the thick armour of the giants
like porcupine quills. Several found chinks in armour, and some of the giants
vaporized at the touch of celestial bronze.
But just when it looked like the Laistrygonians were about to get
overwhelmed, the next wave surged out of the maze: thirty, maybe forty
dracaenae in full battle armour, wielding spears and nets. They dispersed in all
directions. Some hit the traps the Hephaestus cabin had laid. One got stuck on
the spikes and became an easy target for archers. Another triggered a trip wire,
and pots of Greek fire exploded into green flames, engulfing several of the snake
women. But many more kept coming. Argus and Athena’s warriors rushed
forward to meet them. I saw Annabeth draw a sword and engage one of them.
Nearby, Tyson was riding a giant. Somehow he’d managed to climb onto the
giant’s back and was hitting him on the head with a bronze shield – BONG!
BONG! BONG!
Chiron calmly aimed arrow after arrow, taking down a monster with every
shot. But more enemies just kept climbing out of the maze. Finally a hellhound –
not Mrs O’Leary – leaped out of the tunnel and barrelled straight towards the
satyrs.
‘GO!’ Chiron yelled to me.
I drew Riptide and charged.
As I raced across the battlefield, I saw horrible things. An enemy half-blood
was fighting with a son of Dionysus, but it wasn’t much of a contest. The enemy
stabbed him in the arm then clubbed him over the head with the butt of his
sword, and Dionysus’s son went down. Another enemy warrior shot flaming
arrows into the trees, sending our archers and dryads into a panic.
A dozen dracaenae suddenly broke away from the main fight and slithered
down the path that led towards camp, like they knew where they were going. If
they got out, they could burn down the entire place, completely unopposed.
The only person anywhere near was Nico di Angelo. He stabbed a telkhine,
and his black Stygian blade absorbed the monster’s essence, drinking its energy
until there was nothing left but dust.
‘Nico!’ I yelled.
He looked where I was pointing, saw the serpent women, and immediately
understood.
He took a deep breath and held out his black sword. ‘Serve me,’ he called.
The earth trembled. A fissure opened in front of the dracaenae and a dozen
undead warriors crawled from the earth – horrible corpses in military uniforms
from all different time periods – US Revolutionaries, Roman centurions,
Napoleonic cavalry on skeletal horses. As one, they drew their swords and
engaged the dracaenae. Nico crumpled to his knees, but I didn’t have time to
make sure he was okay.
I closed on the hellhound, which was now pushing the satyrs back towards the
woods. The beast snapped at one satyr, who danced out of its way, but then it
pounced on another who was too slow. The satyr’s tree-bark shield cracked as he
fell.
‘Hey!’ I yelled.
The hellhound turned. It snarled at me and leaped. It would’ve clawed me to
pieces, but as I fell backwards my fingers closed around a clay jar – one of
Beckendorf’s containers of Greek fire. I tossed it into the hellhound’s maw, and
the creature went up in flames. I scrambled away, breathing heavily.
The satyr who’d been trampled wasn’t moving. I rushed over to check on him,
but then I heard Grover’s voice: ‘Percy!’
A forest fire had started. Flames roared within three metres of Juniper’s tree,
and Juniper and Grover were going nuts trying to save it. Grover played a rain
song on his pipes. Juniper desperately tried to beat out the flames with her green
shawl, but it was only making things worse.
I ran towards them, jumping past duels, weaving between the legs of giants.
The nearest water was the creek, half a kilometre away… but I had to do
something. I concentrated. There was a pull in my gut, a roar in my ears. Then a
wall of water came rushing through the trees. It doused the fire, Juniper, Grover
and pretty much everything else.
Grover blew a spout of water. ‘Thanks, Percy!’
‘No problem!’ I ran back towards the fight, and Grover and Juniper followed.
Grover had a cudgel in his hand and Juniper held a stick – like an old-fashioned
whipping switch. She looked really angry, like she was going to tan somebody’s
backside.
Just when it seemed like the battle had balanced out again – like we might
stand a chance – an unearthly shriek echoed out of the Labyrinth, a sound I had
heard before.
Kampê shot into the sky, her bat wings fully extended. She landed on the top
of Zeus’s Fist and surveyed the carnage. Her face was filled with evil glee. The
mutant animal heads growled at her waist. Snakes hissed and swirled around her
legs. In her right hand she held a glittering ball of thread – Ariadne’s string – but
she popped it into a lion’s mouth at her waist and drew her curved swords. The
blades glowed green with poison. Kampê screeched in triumph, and some of the
campers screamed. Others tried to run and got trampled by hellhounds or giants.
‘Di immortahs!’ Chiron yelled. He quickly aimed an arrow, but Kampê
seemed to sense his presence. She took flight with amazing speed, and Chiron’s
arrow whizzed harmlessly past her head.
Tyson untangled himself from the giant whom he’d pummelled into
unconsciousness. He ran at our lines, shouting, ‘Stand! Do not run from her!
Fight!’
But then a hellhound leaped on him, and Tyson and the hound went rolling
away.
Kampê landed on the Athena command tent, smashing it flat. I ran after her
and found Annabeth at my side, keeping pace, her sword in her hand.
‘This might be it,’she said.
‘Could be.’
‘Nice fighting with you, Seaweed Brain.’
‘Ditto.’
Together we leaped into the monster’s path. Kampê hissed and sliced at us. I
dodged, trying to distract her, while Annabeth went in for a strike, but the
monster seemed able to fight with both hands independently. She blocked
Annabeth’s sword, and Annabeth had to jump back to avoid the cloud of poison.
Just being near the thing was like standing in an acid fog. My eyes burned. My
lungs couldn’t get enough air. I knew we couldn’t stand our ground for more
than a few seconds.
‘Come on!’ I shouted. ‘We need help!’
But no help came. Everyone was either down, or fighting for their lives, or too
scared to move forward. Three of Chiron’s arrows sprouted from Kampê’s chest,
but she just roared louder.
‘Now!’ Annabeth said.
Together we charged, dodged the monster’s slashes, got inside her guard and
almost… almost managed to stab Kampê in the chest, but a huge bear’s head
lashed out from the monster’s waist, and we had to stumble backwards to avoid
getting bitten.
Slam!
My eyesight went black. The next thing I knew, Annabeth and I were on the
ground. The monster had its forelegs on our chests, holding us down. Hundreds
of snakes slithered right above me, hissing like laughter. Kampê raised her
green-tinged swords, and I knew Annabeth and I were out of options.
Then, behind me, something howled. A wall of darkness slammed into
Kampê, sending the monster sideways. And Mrs O’Leary was standing over us,
snarling and snapping at Kampê.
‘Good girl!’ said a familiar voice. Daedalus was fighting his way out of the
Labyrinth, slashing down enemies left and right as he made his way towards us.
Next to him was someone else – a familiar giant, much taller than the
Laistrygonians, with a hundred rippling arms, each holding a huge chunk of
rock.
‘Briares!’ Tyson cried in wonder.
‘Hail, little brother!’ Briares bellowed. ‘Stand firm!’
And as Mrs O’Leary leaped out of the way, the Hundred-handed One
launched a volley of boulders at Kampê. The rocks seemed to enlarge as they left
Briares’s hands. There were so many, it looked like half the earth had learned to
fly.
BOOOOOM!
Where Kampê had stood a moment before was a mountain of boulders, almost
as tall as Zeus’s Fist. The only sign that the monster had ever existed were two
green sword points sticking through the cracks.
A cheer went up from the campers, but our enemies weren’t done yet. One of
the dracaenae yelled, ‘Ssssslay them! Kill them all or Kronossss will flay you
alive!’
Apparently, that threat was more terrifying than we were. The giants surged
forward in a last desperate attempt. One surprised Chiron with a glancing blow
to the back legs, and he stumbled and fell. Six giants cried in glee and rushed
forward.
‘No!’ I screamed, but I was too far away to help.
Then it happened.
Grover opened his mouth, and the most horrible sound I’d ever heard came
out. It was like a brass trumpet magnified a thousand times – the sound of pure
fear.
As one, the forces of Kronos dropped their weapons and ran for their lives.
The giants trampled the dracaenae, trying to get into the Labyrinth first.
Telkhines and hellhounds and enemy half-bloods scrambled after them. The
tunnel rumbled shut, and the battle was over. The clearing was quiet except for
fires burning in the woods, and the cries of the wounded.
I helped Annabeth to her feet. We ran to Chiron.
‘Are you all right?’ I asked.
He was lying on his side, trying in vain to get up. ‘How embarrassing,’ he
muttered. ‘I think I will be fine. Fortunately, we do not shoot centaurs with
broken… Ow!… broken legs.’
‘You need help,’ Annabeth said. ‘I’ll get a medic from Apollo’s cabin.’
‘No,’ Chiron insisted. ‘There are more serious injuries to attend to. Go! I am
fine. But, Grover… later we must talk about how you did that.’
‘That was amazing,’ I agreed.
Grover blushed. ‘I don’t know where it came from.’
Juniper hugged him fiercely. ‘I do!’
Before she could say more, Tyson called, ‘Percy, come quick! It is Nico!’
There was smoke curling off his black clothes. His fingers were clenched, and
the grass all around his body had turned yellow and died.
I rolled him over as gently as I could and put my hand against his chest. His
heart was beating faintly. ‘Get some nectar!’ I yelled.
One of the Ares campers hobbled over and handed me a canteen. I trickled
some of the magic drink into Nico’s mouth. He coughed and spluttered, but his
eyelids fluttered open.
‘Nico, what happened?’ I asked. ‘Can you talk?’
He nodded weakly. ‘Never tried to summon so many before. I – I’ll be fine.’
We helped him sit up and gave him some more nectar. He blinked at all of us,
like he was trying to remember who we were, and then he focused on someone
behind me.
‘Daedalus,’ he croaked.
‘Yes, my boy,’ the inventor said. ‘I made a very bad mistake. I came to correct
it.’
Daedalus had a few scratches that were bleeding golden oil, but he looked
better than most of us. Apparently his automaton body healed itself quickly. Mrs
O’Leary loomed behind him, licking the wounds on her master’s head so
Daedalus’s hair stood up funny. Briares stood next to him, surrounded by a
group of awed campers and satyrs. He looked kind of bashful, but he was
signing autographs on armour, shields and T-shirts.
‘I found the Hundred-handed One as I came through the maze,’ Daedalus
explained. ‘It seems he had the same idea, to come and help, but he was lost.
And so we fell in together. We both came to make amends.’
‘Yay!’ Tyson jumped up and down. ‘Briares! I knew you would come!’
‘I did not know,’ the Hundred-handed One said. ‘But you reminded me who I
am, Cyclops. You are the hero.’
Tyson blushed, but I patted him on the back. ‘I knew that a long time ago,’ I
said. ‘But, Daedalus… the Titan army is still down there. Even without the
string, they’ll be back. They’ll find a way sooner or later, with Kronos leading
them.’
Daedalus sheathed his sword. ‘You are right. As long as the Labyrinth is here,
your enemies can use it. Which is why the Labyrinth cannot continue.’
Annabeth stared at him. ‘But you said the Labyrinth is tied to your life force!
As long as you’re alive –’
‘Yes, my young architect,’ Daedalus agreed. ‘When I die, the Labyrinth will
die as well. And so I have a present for you.’
He slung a leather satchel off his back, unzipped it and produced a sleek silver
laptop computer – one of the ones I’d seen in the workshop. On the lid was the
blue symbol Δ.
‘My work is here,’ he said. ‘It’s all I managed to save from the fire. Notes on
projects I never started. Some of my favourite designs. I couldn’t develop these
over the last few millennia. I did not dare reveal my work to the mortal world.
But perhaps you will find them interesting.’
He handed the computer to Annabeth, who stared at it like it was solid gold.
‘You’re giving me this? But this is priceless! This is worth… I don’t even know
how much!’
‘Small compensation for the way I have acted,’ Daedalus said. ‘You were
right, Annabeth, about children of Athena. We should be wise, and I was not.
Someday you will be a greater architect than I ever was. Take my ideas and
improve them. It is the least I can do before I pass on.’
‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘Pass on? But you can’t just kill yourself. That’s wrong!’
He shook his head. ‘Not as wrong as hiding from my crimes for two thousand
years. Genius does not excuse evil, Percy. My time has come. I must face my
punishment.’
‘You won’t get a fair trial,’ Annabeth said. ‘The spirit of Minos sits in
judgement –’
‘I will take what comes,’ he said. ‘And trust in the justice of the Underworld,
such as it is. That is all we can do, isn’t it?’
He looked straight at Nico, and Nico’s face darkened.
‘Yes,’ he said.
‘Will you take my soul for ransom, then?’ Daedalus asked. ‘You could use it
to reclaim your sister.’
‘No,’ Nico said. ‘I will help you release your spirit. But Bianca has passed.
She must stay where she is.’
Daedalus nodded. ‘Well said, son of Hades. You are becoming wise,’ Then he
turned towards me. ‘One last favour, Percy Jackson. I cannot leave Mrs O’Leary
alone. And she has no desire to return to the Underworld. Will you care for her?’
I looked at the massive black hound, who whimpered pitifully, still licking
Daedalus’s hair. I was thinking that my mom’s apartment wouldn’t allow dogs,
especially dogs bigger than the apartment, but I said, ‘Yeah. Of course I will.’
‘Then I am ready to see my son… and Perdix,’ he said. ‘I must tell them how
sorry I am.’
Annabeth had tears in her eyes.
Daedalus turned towards Nico, who drew his sword. At first I was afraid Nico
would kill the old inventor, but he simply said, ‘Your time is long since come.
Be released and rest.’
A smile of relief spread across Daedalus’s face. He froze like a statue. His skin
turned transparent, revealing the bronze gears and machinery whirring inside his
body. Then the statue turned to grey ash and disintegrated.
Mrs O’Leary howled. I patted her head, trying to comfort her as best I could.
The earth rumbled – an earthquake that could probably be felt in every major
city across the country – as the ancient Labyrinth collapsed. Somewhere, I
hoped, the remains of the Titans’strike force had been buried.
I looked around at the carnage in the clearing, and the weary faces of my
friends.
‘Come on,’ I told them. ‘We have work to do.’