CHAPTER 10: I Buy Some New Friends
Mrs O’Leary was the only one happy about the sleeping city.
We found her pigging out at an overturned hot-dog stand while the owner was
curled up on the sidewalk, sucking his thumb.
Argus was waiting for us with his hundred eyes wide open. He didn’t say
anything. He never does. I guess that’s because he supposedly has an eyeball on
his tongue. But his face made it clear he was freaking out.
I told him what we’d learned in Olympus, and how the gods would not be
riding to the rescue. Argus rolled his eyes in disgust, which looked pretty
psychedelic since it made his whole body swirl.
‘You’d better get back to camp,’ I told him. ‘Guard it as best you can.’
He pointed at me and raised his eyebrow quizzically.
‘I’m staying,’ I said.
Argus nodded, like this answer satisfied him. He looked at Annabeth and drew
a circle in the air with his finger.
‘Yes,’ Annabeth agreed. ‘I think it’s time.’
‘For what?’ I asked.
Argus rummaged around in the back of his van. He brought out a bronze
shield and passed it to Annabeth. It looked pretty much standard issue – the
same kind of round shield we always used in capture the flag. But when
Annabeth set it on the ground, the reflection on the polished metal changed from
sky and buildings to the Statue of Liberty – which wasn’t anywhere close to us.
‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘A video shield.’
‘One of Daedalus’s ideas,’ Annabeth said. ‘I had Beckendorf make this before
–’ She glanced at Silena. ‘Um, anyway, the shield bends sunlight or moonlight
from anywhere in the world to create a reflection. You can literally see any target
under the sun or moon, as long as natural light is touching it. Look.’
We crowded around as Annabeth concentrated. The image zoomed and spun
at first, so I got motion sickness just watching it. We were in the Central Park
Zoo, then zooming down East Sixtieth past Bloomingdale’s, then turning on
Third Avenue.
‘Whoa,’ Connor Stoll said. ‘Back up. Zoom in right there.’
‘What?’ Annabeth said nervously. ‘You see invaders?’
‘No, right there – Dylan’s Candy Bar.’ Connor grinned at his brother. ‘Dude,
it’s open. And everyone is asleep. Are you thinking what I’m thinking?’
‘Connor!’ Katie Gardner scolded. She sounded like her mother Demeter. ‘This
is serious. You are not going to loot a candy store in the middle of a war!’
‘Sorry,’ Connor muttered, but he didn’t sound very ashamed.
Annabeth passed her hand in front of the shield and another scene popped up:
FDR Drive, looking across the river at Lighthouse Park.
‘This will let us see what’s going on across the city,’ she said. ‘Thank you,
Argus. Hopefully, we’ll see you back at camp … someday.’
Argus grunted. He gave me a look that clearly meant good luck – you’ll need
it, then climbed into his van. He and the two harpy drivers swerved away,
weaving around clusters of idle cars that littered the road.
I whistled for Mrs O’Leary and she came bounding over.
‘Hey, girl,’ I said. ‘You remember Grover? The satyr we met in the park?’
‘WOOF!’
I hoped that meant, Sure I do! And not, Do you have more hot dogs?
‘I need you to find him,’ I said. ‘Make sure he’s still awake. We’re going to
need his help. You got that? Find Grover!’
Mrs O’Leary gave me a sloppy wet kiss, which seemed kind of unnecessary.
Then she raced off north.
Pollux crouched next to a sleeping policeman. ‘I don’t get it. Why didn’t we
fall asleep too? Why just the mortals?’
‘This is a huge spell,’ Silena Beauregard said. ‘The bigger the spell, the easier
it is to resist. If you want to sleep millions of mortals, you’ve got to cast a very
thin layer of magic. Sleeping demigods is much harder.’
I stared at her. ‘When did you learn so much about magic?’
Silena blushed. ‘I don’t spend all my time on my wardrobe.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth called. She was still looking at the shield. ‘You’d better see
this.’
The bronze image showed Long Island Sound near La Guardia. A fleet of a
dozen speedboats raced through the dark water towards Manhattan. Each boat
was packed with demigods in full Greek armour. At the back of the lead boat, a
purple banner emblazoned with a black scythe flapped in the night wind. I’d
never seen that design before, but it wasn’t hard to figure out: the battle flag of
Kronos.
‘Scan the perimeter of the island,’ I said. ‘Quick.’
Annabeth shifted the scene south to the harbour. A Staten Island ferry was
ploughing through the waves near Ellis Island. The deck was crowded with
dracaenae and a whole pack of hellhounds. Swimming in front of the ship was a
pod of marine mammals. At first I thought they were dolphins. Then I saw their
doglike faces and the swords strapped to their waists, and I realized they were
telkhines.
The scene shifted again – the Jersey shore, right at the entrance to the Lincoln
Tunnel. A hundred assorted monsters were marching past the lanes of stopped
traffic – giants with clubs, rogue Cyclopes, a few fire-spitting dragons and, just
to rub it in, a World War II-era Sherman tank, pushing cars out of its way as it
rumbled into the tunnel.
‘What’s happening with the mortals outside Manhattan?’ I said. ‘Is the whole
state asleep?’
Annabeth frowned. ‘I don’t think so, but it’s strange. As far as I can tell from
these pictures, Manhattan is totally asleep. Then there’s, like, a fifty-mile radius
around the island where time is running really, really slow. The closer you get to
Manhattan, the slower it is.’
She showed me another scene – a New Jersey highway. It was Saturday
evening, so the traffic wasn’t as bad as it might’ve been on a weekday. The
drivers looked awake, but the cars were moving at about one mile per hour.
Birds flew overhead in slow motion.
‘Kronos,’ I said. ‘He’s slowing time.’
‘Hecate might be helping,’ Katie Gardner said. ‘Look how the cars are all
veering away from the Manhattan exits, like they’re getting a subconscious
message to turn back.’
‘I don’t know.’ Annabeth sounded really frustrated. She hated not knowing.
‘But somehow they’ve surrounded Manhattan in layers of magic. The outside
world might not even realize something is wrong. Any mortals coming towards
Manhattan will slow down so much they won’t know what’s happening.’
‘Like flies in amber,’Jake Mason murmured.
Annabeth nodded. ‘We shouldn’t expect any help coming in.’
I turned to my friends. They looked stunned and scared, and I couldn’t blame
them. The shield had shown us at least three hundred enemies on the way. There
were forty of us. And we were alone.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘We’re going to hold Manhattan.’
Silena tugged at her armour. ‘Um, Percy, Manhattan is huge.’
‘We are going to hold it,’ I said. ‘We have to.’
‘He’s right,’ Annabeth said. ‘The gods of the wind should keep Kronos’s
forces away from Olympus by air, so he’ll try a ground assault. We have to cut
off the entrances to the island.’
‘They have boats,’ Michael Yew pointed out.
An electric tingle went down my back. Suddenly I understood Athena’s
advice: Remember the rivers.
‘I’ll take care of the boats,’ I said.
Michael frowned. ‘How?’
‘Just leave it to me,’ I said. ‘We need to guard the bridges and tunnels. Let’s
assume they’ll try a midtown or downtown assault, at least on their first try. That
would be the most direct way to the Empire State Building. Michael, take
Apollo’s cabin to the Williamsburg Bridge. Katie, Demeter’s cabin takes the
Brooklyn Battery Tunnel. Grow thorn bushes and poison ivy in the tunnel. Do
whatever you have to do – but keep them out of there! Connor – take half of
Hermes cabin and cover the Manhattan Bridge. Travis, you take the other half
and cover the Brooklyn Bridge. And no stopping for looting or pillaging!’
‘Awwww!’ the whole Hermes cabin complained.
‘Silena, take the Aphrodite crew to the Queens–Midtown Tunnel.’
‘Oh, my gods,’ one of her sisters said. ‘Fifth Avenue is so on our way! We
could accessorize, and monsters, like, totally hate the smell of Givenchy.’
‘No delays,’ I said. ‘Well … the perfume thing, if you think it’ll work.’
Six Aphrodite girls kissed me on the cheek in excitement.
‘All right, enough!’ I closed my eyes, trying to think what I’d forgotten. ‘The
Holland Tunnel. Jake – take Hephaestus cabin there. Use Greek fire, set traps.
Whatever you’ve got.’
He grinned. ‘Gladly. We’ve got a score to settle. For Beckendorf!’
The whole cabin roared in approval.
‘The Fifty-ninth Street Bridge,’ I said. ‘Clarisse –’
I faltered. Clarisse wasn’t here. The whole Ares cabin, curse them, was sitting
back at camp.
‘We’ll take that.’ Annabeth stepped in, saving me from an embarrassing
silence. She turned to her siblings. ‘Malcolm, take Athena cabin and activate
plan twenty-three along the way, just like I showed you. Hold that position.’
‘You got it.’
‘I’ll go with Percy,’ she said. ‘Then we’ll join you – or we’ll go wherever
we’re needed.’
Somebody in the back of the group said, ‘No detours, you two.’
There were some giggles, but I decided to let it pass.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘Keep in touch with cell phones.’
‘We don’t have cell phones,’ Silena protested.
I reached down, picked up some snoring lady’s BlackBerry and tossed it to
Silena. ‘You do now. You all know Annabeth’s number, right? If you need us,
pick up a random phone and call us. Use it once, drop it, then borrow another
one if you have to. That should make it harder for the monsters to zero in on
you.’
Everyone grinned like they liked this idea.
Travis cleared his throat. ‘Uh, if we find a really nice phone –’
‘No, you can’t keep it,’ I said.
‘Aw, man.’
‘Hold it, Percy,’Jake Mason said. ‘You forgot the Lincoln Tunnel.’
I bit back a curse. He was right. A Sherman tank and a hundred monsters were
marching through that tunnel right now, and I’d positioned our forces
everywhere else.
Then a girl’s voice called from across the street: ‘How about you leave that to
us?’
I’d never been happier to hear anyone in my life. A band of thirty adolescent
girls crossed Fifth Avenue. They wore white shirts, silvery camouflage pants and
combat boots. They all had swords at their sides, quivers on their backs and
bows at the ready. A pack of white timber wolves milled around their feet, and
many of the girls had hunting falcons on their arms.
The girl in the lead had spiky black hair and a black leather jacket. She wore a
silver circlet on her head like a princess’s tiara, which didn’t match her skull
earrings or her Death to Barbie T-shirt showing a little Barbie doll with an arrow
through its head.
‘Thalia!’ Annabeth cried.
The daughter of Zeus grinned. ‘The Hunters of Artemis, reporting for duty.’
There were hugs and greetings all around – or at least Thalia was friendly. The
other Hunters didn’t like being around campers, especially boys, but they didn’t
shoot any of us, which for them was a pretty warm welcome.
‘Where have you been the last year?’ I asked Thalia. ‘You’ve got, like, twice
as many Hunters now!’
She laughed. ‘Long, long story. I bet my adventures were more dangerous
than yours, Jackson.’
‘Complete lie,’ I said.
‘We’ll see,’ she promised. ‘After this is over, you, Annabeth and me:
cheeseburgers and fries at that hotel on West Fifty-sixth.’
‘Le Parker Meridien,’ I said. ‘You’re on. And, Thalia – thanks.’
She shrugged. ‘Those monsters won’t know what hit them. Hunters, move
out!’
She slapped her silver bracelet and the shield Aegis spiralled into full form.
The golden head of Medusa moulded in the centre was so horrible the campers
all backed away. The Hunters took off down the avenue, followed by their
wolves and falcons, and I had a feeling the Lincoln Tunnel would be safe for
now.
‘Thank the gods,’ Annabeth said. ‘But if we don’t blockade the rivers from
those boats, guarding the bridges and tunnels will be pointless.’
‘You’re right,’ I said.
I looked at the campers, all of them grim and determined. I tried not to feel
like this was the last time I’d ever see them all together.
‘You’re the greatest heroes of this millennium,’ I told them. ‘It doesn’t matter
how many monsters come at you. Fight bravely, and we will win.’ I raised
Riptide and shouted, ‘FOR OLYMPUS!’
They shouted in response, and our forty voices echoed off the buildings of
midtown. For a moment, it sounded brave, but it died quickly in the silence of
ten million sleeping New Yorkers.
Annabeth and I would’ve had our pick of cars, but they were all wedged in
bumper-to-bumper traffic. None of the engines were running, which was weird.
It seemed the drivers had had time to turn off the ignition before they got too
sleepy. Or maybe Morpheus had the power to put engines to sleep as well. Most
of the drivers had apparently tried to pull to the kerb when they felt themselves
passing out, but still the streets were too clogged to navigate.
Finally we found an unconscious courier leaning against a brick wall, still
straddling his red Vespa. We dragged him off the scooter and laid him on the
sidewalk.
‘Sorry, dude,’ I said. With any luck, I’d be able to bring his scooter back. If I
didn’t, it would hardly matter, because the city would be destroyed.
I drove with Annabeth behind me, holding onto my waist. We zigzagged
down Broadway with our engine buzzing through the eerie calm. The only
sounds were occasional cell phones ringing – like they calling out to each other,
as if New York had turned into a giant electronic aviary.
Our progress was slow. Every so often we’d come across pedestrians who’d
fallen asleep right in front of a car, and we’d move them just to be safe. Once we
stopped to extinguish a pretzel vendor’s cart that had caught on fire. A few
minutes later we had to rescue a baby carriage that was rolling aimlessly down
the street. It turned out there was no baby in it – just somebody’s sleeping
poodle. Go figure. We parked it safely in a doorway and kept riding.
We were passing Madison Square Park when Annabeth said: ‘Pull over.’
I stopped in the middle of East Twenty-third. Annabeth jumped off and ran
towards the park. By the time I caught up with her, she was staring at a bronze
statue on a red marble pedestal. I’d probably passed it a million times, but never
really looked at it.
The dude was sitting in a chair with his legs crossed. He wore an oldfashioned suit – Abraham Lincoln style – with a bowtie and long coat-tails and
stuff. A bunch of bronze books were piled under his chair. He held a writing quill
in one hand and a big metal sheet of parchment in the other.
‘Why do we care about …’ I squinted at the name on the pedestal. ‘William H.
Steward?’
‘Seward,’ Annabeth corrected. ‘He was a New York governor. Minor demigod
– son of Hebe, I think. But that’s not important. It’s the statue I care about.’
She climbed on a park bench and examined the base of the statue.
‘Don’t tell me he’s an automaton,’ I said.
Annabeth smiled. ‘Turns out most of the statues in the city are automatons.
Daedalus planted them here just in case he needed an army.’
‘To attack Olympus or defend it?’
Annabeth shrugged. ‘Either one. That was plan twenty-three. He could
activate one statue and it would start activating its brethren all over the city, until
there was an army. It’s dangerous, though. You know how unpredictable
automatons are.’
‘Uh-huh,’ I said. We’d had our share of bad experiences with them. ‘You’re
seriously thinking about activating it?’
‘I have Daedalus’s notes,’she said. ‘I think I can … Ah, here we go.’
She pressed the tip of Seward’s boot and the statue stood up, its quill and
paper ready.
‘What’s he going to do?’ I muttered. ‘Take a memo?’
‘Shh,’said Annabeth. ‘Hello, William.’
‘Bill,’ I suggested.
‘Bill – oh, shut up,’ Annabeth told me. The statue tilted its head, looking at us
with blank metal eyes.
Annabeth cleared her throat. ‘Hello, er, Governor Seward. Command
sequence: Daedalus Twenty-three. Defend Manhattan. Begin Activation.’
Seward jumped off his pedestal. He hit the ground so hard his shoes cracked
the sidewalk. Then he went clanking off towards the east.
‘He’s probably going to wake up Confucius,’ Annabeth guessed.
‘What?’ I said.
‘Another statue on Division. The point is, they’ll keep waking each other up
until they’re all activated.’
‘And then?’
‘Hopefully, they defend Manhattan.’
‘Do they know that we’re not the enemy?’
‘I think so.’
‘That’s reassuring.’ I thought about all the bronze statues in the parks, plazas
and buildings of New York. There had to be hundreds, maybe thousands.
Then a ball of green light exploded in the evening sky – Greek fire,
somewhere over the East River.
‘We have to hurry,’ I said. And we ran for the Vespa.
We pulled over outside Battery Park, at the lower tip of Manhattan where the
Hudson and East Rivers came together and emptied into the Bay.
‘Wait here,’ I told Annabeth.
‘Percy, you shouldn’t go alone.’
‘Well, unless you can breathe underwater …’
She sighed. ‘You are so annoying sometimes.’
‘Like when I’m right? Trust me, I’ll be fine. I’ve got the curse of Achilles
now. I’m all invincible and stuff.’
Annabeth didn’t look convinced. ‘Just be careful. I don’t want anything to
happen to you. I mean – because we need you for the battle.’
I grinned. ‘Back in a flash.’
I clambered down the shoreline and waded into the water.
Just for you non-sea-god types out there – don’t go swimming in New York
Harbor. It may not be as filthy as it was in my mom’s day, but that water will still
probably make you grow a third eye or have mutant children when you grow up.
I dived into the murk and sank to the bottom. I tried to find the spot where the
two rivers’ currents seemed equal – where they met to form the bay. I figured
that was the best place to get their attention.
‘HEY!’ I shouted in my best underwater voice. The sound echoed in the
darkness. ‘I heard you guys are so polluted you’re embarrassed to show your
faces. Is that true?’
A cold current rippled through the Bay, churning up plumes of garbage and
silt.
‘I heard the East River is more toxic,’ I continued, ‘but the Hudson smells
worse. Or is it the other way around?’
The water shimmered. Something powerful and angry was watching me now.
I could sense its presence … or maybe two presences.
I was afraid I’d miscalculated with the insults. What if they just blasted me
without showing themselves? But these were New York river gods. I figured
their instinct would be to get in my face.
Sure enough, two giant forms appeared in front of me. At first they were just
dark brown columns of silt, denser than the water around them. Then they grew
legs, arms and scowling faces.
The creature on the left looked disturbingly like a telkhine. His face was
wolfish. His body was vaguely like a seal’s – sleek black with flipper hands and
feet. His eyes glowed radiation green.
The dude on the right was more humanoid. He was dressed in rags and
seaweed, with a chainmail coat made of bottle caps and old plastic six-pack
holders. His face was blotchy with algae, and his beard was overgrown. His deep
blue eyes burned with anger.
The seal, who had to be the god of the East River, said, ‘Are you trying to get
yourself killed, kid? Or are you just extra stupid?’
The bearded spirit of the Hudson scoffed. ‘You’re the expert on stupid, East.’
‘Watch it, Hudson,’ East growled. ‘Stay on your side of the island and mind
your business.’
‘Or what? You’ll throw another garbage barge at me?’
They floated towards each other, ready to fight.
‘Hold it!’ I yelled. ‘We’ve got a bigger problem.’
‘The kid’s right,’ East snarled. ‘Let’s both kill him, then we’ll fight each
other.’
‘Sounds good,’ Hudson said.
Before I could protest, a thousand scraps of garbage surged off the bottom and
flew straight at me from both directions – broken glass, rocks, cans, tyres.
I was expecting it, though. The water in front of me thickened into a shield.
The debris bounced off harmlessly. Only one piece got through – a big chunk of
glass that hit my chest and probably should’ve killed me, but it shattered against
my skin.
The two river gods stared at me.
‘Son of Poseidon?’ East asked.
I nodded.
‘Took a dip in the Styx?’ Hudson asked.
‘Yep.’
They both made disgusted sounds.
‘Well, that’s perfect,’ East said. ‘Now how do we kill him?’
‘We could electrocute him,’ Hudson mused. ‘If I could just find some jumper
cables –’
‘Listen to me!’ I said. ‘Kronos’s army is invading Manhattan!’
‘Don’t you think we know that?’ East asked. ‘I can feel his boats right now.
They’re almost across.’
‘Yep,’ Hudson agreed. ‘I got some filthy monsters crossing my waters, too.’
‘So stop them,’ I said. ‘Drown them. Sink their boats.’
‘Why should we?’ Hudson grumbled. ‘So they invade Olympus. What do we
care?’
‘Because I can pay you.’ I took out the sand dollar my father had given me for
my birthday.
The river gods’ eyes widened.
‘It’s mine!’ East said. ‘Give it here, kid, and I promise none of Kronos’s scum
are getting across the East River.’
‘Forget that,’ Hudson said. ‘That sand dollar’s mine, unless you want me to let
all those ships cross the Hudson.’
‘We’ll compromise.’ I broke the sand dollar in half. A ripple of clean fresh
water spread out from the break, as if all the pollution in the Bay was being
dissolved.
‘You each get half,’ I said. ‘In exchange, you keep all of Kronos’s forces away
from Manhattan.’
‘Oh, man,’ Hudson whimpered, reaching out for the sand dollar. ‘It’s been so
long since I was clean.’
‘The power of Poseidon,’ East River murmured. ‘He’s a jerk, but he sure
knows how to sweep pollution away.’
They looked at each other, then spoke as one: ‘It’s a deal.’
I gave them each half of the sand dollar, which they held reverently.
‘Um, the invaders?’ I prompted.
East flicked his hand. ‘They just got sunk.’
Hudson snapped his fingers. ‘Bunch of hellhounds just took a dive.’
‘Thank you,’ I said. ‘Stay clean.’
As I rose towards the surface, East called out, ‘Hey, kid, any time you got a
sand dollar to spend, come on back. Assuming you live.’
‘Curse of Achilles,’ Hudson snorted. ‘They always think that’ll save them,
don’t they?’
‘If only he knew,’ East agreed. They both laughed, dissolving into the water.
Back on the shore, Annabeth was talking on her cell phone, but she hung up as
soon as she saw me. She looked pretty shaken.
‘It worked,’ I told her. ‘The rivers are safe.’
‘Good,’ she said. ‘Because we’ve got other problems. Michael Yew just
called. Another army is marching over the Williamsburg Bridge. The Apollo
cabin needs help. And, Percy, the monster leading the enemy … it’s the
Minotaur.’