CHAPTER 20: I Get A New Enemy For Christmas
Before I left Olympus, I decided to make a few calls. It wasn’t easy, but I finally
found a quiet fountain in a corner garden and sent an Iris-message to my brother
Tyson, under the sea. I told him about our adventures, and Bessie – he wanted to
hear every detail about the cute baby cow serpent – and I assured him that
Annabeth was safe. Finally I got round to explaining how the shield he’d made
me last summer had been damaged in the manticore attack.
‘Yay!’ Tyson said. ‘That means it was good! It saved your life!’
‘It sure did, big guy,’ I said. ‘But now it’s ruined.’
‘Not ruined!’ Tyson promised. ‘I will visit and fix it next summer.’
The idea picked me up instantly. I guess I hadn’t realized how much I missed
having Tyson around.
‘Seriously?’ I asked. ‘They’ll let you take time off?’
‘Yes! I have made two thousand seven hundred and forty-one magic swords,’
Tyson said proudly, showing me the newest blade. ‘The boss says “good work!”
He will let me take the whole summer off. I will visit camp!’
We talked for a while about war preparations and our dad’s fight with the old
sea gods, and all the cool things we could do together next summer, but then
Tyson’s boss started yelling at him and he had to get back to work.
I dug out my last golden drachma and made one more Iris-message.
‘Sally Jackson,’ I said. ‘Upper East Side, Manhattan.’
The mist shimmered, and there was my mom at our kitchen table, laughing
and holding hands with her friend Mr Blowfish.
I felt so embarrassed, I was about to wave my hand through the mist and cut
the connection but, before I could, my mom saw me.
Her eyes got wide. She let go of Mr Blowfish’s hand really quickly. ‘Oh, Paul!
You know what? I left my writing journal in the living room. Would you mind
getting it for me?’
‘Sure, Sally. No problem.’
He left the room, and instantly my mom leaned towards the Iris-message.
‘Percy! Are you all right?’
‘I’m, uh, fine. How’s that writing seminar going?’
She pursed her lips. ‘It’s fine. But that’s not important. Tell me what’s
happened!’
I filled her in as quickly as I could. She sighed with relief when she heard that
Annabeth was safe.
‘I knew you could do it!’she said. ‘I’m so proud.’
‘Yeah, well, I’d better let you get back to your homework.’
‘Percy, I… Paul and I –’
‘Mom, are you happy?’
The question seemed to take her by surprise. She thought for a moment. ‘Yes.
I really am, Percy. Being around him makes me happy.’
‘Then it’s cool. Seriously. Don’t worry about me.’
The funny thing was, I meant it. Considering the quest I’d just had, maybe I
should have been worried for my mom. I’d seen just how mean people could be
to each other, like Hercules was to Zoë Nightshade, like Luke was to Thalia. I’d
met Aphrodite, Goddess of Love, in person, and her powers had scared me
worse than Ares. But seeing my mother laughing and smiling, after all the years
she’d suffered with my nasty ex-stepfather, Gabe Ugliano, I couldn’t help feeling
happy for her.
‘You promise not to call him Mr Blowfish?’she asked.
I shrugged. ‘Well, maybe not to his face, anyway.’
‘Sally?’ Mr Blofis called from our living room. ‘You need the green binder or
the red one?’
‘I’d better go,’she told me. ‘See you for Christmas?’
‘Are you putting blue candy in my stocking?’
She smiled. ‘If you’re not too old for that.’
‘I’m never too old for candy.’
‘I’ll see you then.’
She waved her hand across the mist. Her image disappeared, and I thought to
myself that Thalia had been right, so many days ago at Westover Hall: my mom
really was pretty cool.
Compared to Mount Olympus, Manhattan was quiet. Friday before Christmas,
but it was early in the morning, and hardly anyone was on Fifth Avenue. Argus,
the many-eyed security chief, picked up Annabeth, Grover and me at the Empire
State Building and ferried us back to camp through a light snowstorm. The Long
Island Expressway was almost deserted.
As we trudged back up Half-Blood Hill to the pine tree where the Golden
Fleece glittered, I half expected to see Thalia there, waiting for us. But she
wasn’t. She was long gone with Artemis and the rest of the Hunters, off on their
next adventure.
Chiron greeted us at the Big House with hot chocolate and toasted cheese
sandwiches. Grover went off with his satyr friends to spread the word about our
strange encounter with the magic of Pan. Within an hour, the satyrs were all
running around agitated, asking where the nearest espresso bar was.
Annabeth and I sat with Chiron and some of the other senior campers –
Beckendorf, Silena Beauregard and the Stoll brothers. Even Clarisse from the
Ares cabin was there, back from her secretive scouting mission. I knew she
must’ve had a difficult quest, because she didn’t even try to pulverize me. She
had a new scar on her chin, and her dirty blonde hair had been cut short and
ragged, like someone had attacked it with a pair of safety scissors.
‘I got news,’she mumbled uneasily. ‘Bad news.’
‘I’ll fill you in later,’ Chiron said with forced cheerfulness. ‘The important
thing is you have prevailed. And you saved Annabeth!’
Annabeth smiled at me gratefully, which made me look away.
For some strange reason, I found myself thinking about the Hoover Dam, and
the odd mortal girl I’d run into there, Rachel Elizabeth Dare. I didn’t know why,
but her annoying comments kept coming back to me. Do you always kill people
when they blow their nose? I was only alive because so many people had helped
me, even a random mortal girl like that. I’d never even explained to her who I
was.
‘Luke is alive,’ I said. ‘Annabeth was right.’
Annabeth sat up. ‘How do you know?’
I tried not to feel annoyed by her interest. I told her what my dad had said
about the Princess Andromeda.
‘Well.’ Annabeth shifted uncomfortably in her chair. ‘If the final battle does
come when Percy is sixteen, at least we have two more years to figure something
out.’
I had a feeling that when she said ‘figure something out’, she meant ‘get Luke
to change his ways’, which annoyed me even more.
Chiron’s expression was gloomy. Sitting by the fire in his wheelchair, he
looked really old. I mean… he was really old, but he usually didn’t look it.
‘Two years may seem like a long time,’ he said. ‘But it is the blink of an eye. I
still hope you are not the child of the prophecy, Percy. But, if you are, then the
second Titan war is almost upon us. Kronos’s first strike will be here.’
‘How do you know?’ I asked. ‘Why would he care about camp?’
‘Because the gods use heroes as their tools,’ Chiron said simply. ‘Destroy the
tools, and the gods will be crippled. Luke’s forces will come here. Mortal,
demigod, monstrous… We must be prepared. Clarisse’s news may give us a clue
as to how they will attack, but –’
There was a knock on the door, and Nico di Angelo came huffing into the
parlour, his cheeks bright red from the cold.
He was smiling, but he looked around anxiously. ‘Hey! Where’s… where’s
my sister?’
Dead silence. I stared at Chiron. I couldn’t believe nobody had told him yet.
And then I realized why. They’d been waiting for us to appear, to tell Nico in
person.
That was the last thing I wanted to do. But I owed it to Bianca.
‘Hey, Nico.’ I got up from my comfortable chair. ‘Let’s take a walk, okay? We
need to talk.’
He took the news in silence, which somehow made it worse. I kept talking,
trying to explain how it had happened, how Bianca had sacrificed herself to save
the quest. But I felt like I was only making things worse.
‘She wanted you to have this.’ I brought out the little god figurine Bianca had
found in the junkyard. Nico held it in his palm and stared at it.
We were standing at the dining pavilion, just where we’d last spoken before I
went on the quest. The wind was bitterly cold, even with the camp’s magical
weather protection. Snow fell lightly against the marble steps. I figured outside
the camp borders there must be a blizzard happening.
‘You promised you would protect her,’ Nico said.
He might as well have stabbed me with a rusty dagger. It would’ve hurt less
than reminding me of my promise.
‘Nico,’ I said. ‘I tried. But Bianca gave herself up to save the rest of us. I told
her not to. But she –’
‘You promised!’
He glared at me, his eyes rimmed with red. He closed his small fist round the
god statue.
‘I shouldn’t have trusted you.’ His voice broke. ‘You lied to me. My
nightmares were right!’
‘Wait. What nightmares?’
He flung the god statue to ground. It clattered across the icy marble. ‘I hate
you!’
‘She might be alive,’ I said desperately. ‘I don’t know for sure –’
‘She’s dead.’ He closed his eyes. His whole body trembled with rage. ‘I
should’ve known it earlier. She’s in the Fields of Asphodel, standing before the
judges right now, being evaluated. I can feel it.’
‘What do you mean, you can feel it?’
Before he could answer, I heard a new sound behind me. A hissing, clattering
noise I recognized all too well.
I drew my sword and Nico gasped. I whirled and found myself facing four
skeleton warriors. They grinned fleshless grins and advanced with swords
drawn. I don’t know how they’d made it inside the camp, but it didn’t matter. I’d
never get help in time.
‘You’re trying to kill me!’ Nico screamed. ‘You brought these… these things?’
‘No! I mean, yes, they followed me, but no! Nico, run. They can’t be
destroyed.’
‘I don’t trust you!’
The first skeleton charged. I knocked aside its blade, but the other three kept
coming. I sliced one in half, but immediately it began to knit back together. I
knocked another’s head off but it just kept fighting.
‘Run, Nico!’ I yelled. ‘Get help!’
‘No!’ He pressed his hands to his ears.
I couldn’t fight four at once, not if they wouldn’t die. I slashed, whirled,
blocked, jabbed, but they just kept advancing. It was only a matter of seconds
before the zombies overpowered me.
‘No!’ Nico shouted louder. ‘GO AWAY!’
The ground rumbled beneath me. The skeletons froze. I rolled out of the way
just as a crack opened at the feet of the four warriors. The ground ripped apart
like a snapping mouth. Flames erupted from the fissure, and the earth swallowed
the skeletons in one loud CRUNCH!
Silence.
In the place where the skeletons had stood, a six-metre-long scar wove across
the marble floor of the pavilion. Otherwise there was no sign of the warriors.
Awestruck, I looked to Nico. ‘How did you –’
‘Go away!’ he yelled. ‘I hate you! I wish you were dead!’
The ground didn’t swallow me up, but Nico ran, down the steps, heading
towards the woods. I started to follow but slipped and fell on the icy steps. When
I got up, I noticed what I’d slipped on.
I picked up the god statue Bianca had retrieved from the junkyard for Nico.
The only statue he didn’t have, she’d said. A last gift from his sister.
I stared at it with dread, because now I understood why the face looked
familiar. I’d seen it before.
It was a statue of Hades, Lord of the Dead.
Annabeth and Grover helped me search the woods for hours, but there was no
sign of Nico di Angelo.
‘We have to tell Chiron,’ Annabeth said, out of breath.
‘No,’ I said.
She and Grover both stared at me.
‘Um,’ Grover said nervously, ‘what do you mean… no?’
I was still trying to figure out why I’d said that, but the words spilled out of
me. ‘We can’t let anyone know. I don’t think anyone realizes that Nico is a –’
‘A son of Hades,’ Annabeth said. ‘Percy, do you have any idea how serious
this is? Even Hades broke the oath! This is horrible!’
‘I don’t think so,’ I said. ‘I don’t think Hades broke the oath.’
‘What?’
‘He’s their dad,’ I said, ‘but Bianca and Nico have been out of commission for
a long time, since even before World War II.’
‘The Lotus Casino!’ Grover said, and he told Annabeth about the
conversations we’d had with Bianca on the quest. ‘She and Nico were stuck
there for decades. They were born before the oath was made.’
I nodded.
‘But how did they get out?’ Annabeth protested.
‘I don’t know,’ I admitted. ‘Bianca said a lawyer came and got them and drove
them to Westover Hall. I don’t know who that could’ve been, or why. Maybe it’s
part of this Great Stirring thing. I don’t think Nico understands who he is. But
we can’t go telling anyone. Not even Chiron. If the Olympians find out –’
‘It might start them fighting among each other again,’ Annabeth said. ‘That’s
the last thing we need.’
Grover looked worried. ‘But you can’t hide things from the gods. Not
forever.’
‘I don’t need forever,’ I said. ‘Just two years. Until I’m sixteen.’
Annabeth paled. ‘But, Percy, this means the prophecy might not be about you.
It might be about Nico. We have to –’
‘No,’ I said. ‘I choose the prophecy. It will be about me.’
‘Why are you saying that?’ she cried. ‘You want to be responsible for the
whole world?’
It was the last thing I wanted, but I didn’t say that. I knew I had to step up and
claim it.
‘I can’t let Nico be in any more danger,’ I said. ‘I owe that much to his sister.
I… let them both down. I’m not going to let that poor kid suffer any more.’
‘The poor kid who hates you and wants to see you dead,’ Grover reminded
me.
‘Maybe we can find him,’ I said. ‘We can convince him it’s okay, hide him
somewhere safe.’
Annabeth shivered. ‘If Luke gets hold of him –’
‘Luke won’t,’ I said. ‘I’ll make sure he’s got other things to worry about.
Namely, me.’
I wasn’t sure Chiron believed the story Annabeth and I told him. I think he could
tell I was holding something back about Nico’s disappearance, but, in the end, he
accepted it. Unfortunately, Nico wasn’t the first half-blood to disappear.
‘So young,’ Chiron sighed, his hands on the rail of the front porch. ‘Alas, I
hope he was eaten by monsters. Much better than being recruited into the Titans’
army.’
That idea made me really uneasy. I almost changed my mind about telling
Chiron, but I didn’t.
‘You really think the first attack will be here?’ I asked.
Chiron stared at the snow falling on the hills. I could see smoke from the
dragon guardian at the pine tree, the glitter of the distant Fleece.
‘It will not be until summer, at least,’ Chiron said. ‘This winter will be hard…
the hardest for many centuries. It’s best that you go home to the city, Percy, try to
keep your mind on school. And rest. You will need rest.’
I looked at Annabeth. ‘What about you?’
Her cheeks flushed. ‘I’m going to try San Francisco after all. Maybe I can
keep an eye on Mount Tam, make sure the Titans don’t try anything else.’
‘You’ll send an Iris-message if anything goes wrong?’
She nodded. ‘But I think Chiron’s right. It won’t be until the summer. Luke
will need time to regain his strength.’
I didn’t like the idea of waiting. Then again, next August I would be turning
fifteen. So close to sixteen I didn’t want to think about it.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘Just take care of yourself. And no crazy stunts in the
Sopwith Camel.’
She smiled tentatively. ‘Deal. And, Percy –’
Whatever she was going to say was interrupted by Grover, who stumbled out
of the Big House, tripping over tin cans. His face was haggard and pale, like
he’d seen a spectre.
‘He spoke!’ Grover cried.
‘Calm down, my young satyr,’ Chiron said, frowning. ‘What is the matter?’
‘I… I was playing music in the parlour,’ he stammered, ‘and drinking coffee.
Lots and lots of coffee! And he spoke in my mind!’
‘Who?’ Annabeth demanded.
‘Pan!’ Grover wailed. ‘The Lord of the Wild himself. I heard him! I have to…
I have to find a suitcase.’
‘Whoa, whoa, whoa,’ I said. ‘What did he say?’
Grover stared at me. ‘Just three words. He said, “I await you.” ’