CHAPTER 15: A God Buys Us Cheeseburgers
The next afternoon, June 14, seven days before the solstice, our train rolled into
Denver. We hadn’t eaten since the night before in the dining car, somewhere in
Kansas. We hadn’t taken a shower since Half-Blood Hill, and I was sure that was
obvious.
‘Let’s try to contact Chiron,’ Annabeth said. ‘I want to tell him about your talk
with the river spirit.’
‘We cant use phones, right?’
‘I’m not talking about phones.’
We wandered through downtown for about half an hour, though I wasn’t sure
what Annabeth was looking for. The air was dry and hot, which felt weird after
the humidity of St Louis. Everywhere we turned, the Rocky Mountains seemed
to be staring at me, like a tidal wave about to crash into the city.
Finally we found an empty do-it-yourself car wash. We veered towards the
stall furthest from the street, keeping our eyes open for patrol cars. We were
three adolescents hanging out at a car wash without a car; any cop worth his
doughnuts would figure we were up to no good.
‘What exactly are we doing?’ I asked, as Grover took out the spray gun.
‘It’s seventy-five cents,’ he grumbled. ‘I’ve only got two quarters left.
Annabeth?’
‘Don’t look at me,’she said. ‘The dining car wiped me out.’
I fished out my last bit of change and passed Grover a quarter, which left me
two nickels and one drachma from Medusa’s place.
‘Excellent,’ Grover said. ‘We could do it with a spray bottle, of course, but the
connection isn’t as good, and my arm gets tired of pumping.’
‘What are you talking about?’
He fed in the quarters and set the knob to fine mist ‘I-M’ing.’
‘Instant messaging?’
‘Iris-messaging,’ Annabeth corrected. ‘The rainbow goddess Iris carries
messages for the gods. If you know how to ask, and she’s not too busy, she’ll do
the same for half-bloods.’
‘You summon the goddess with a spray gun?’
Grover pointed the nozzle in the air and water hissed out in a thick white mist.
‘Unless you know an easier way to make a rainbow.’
Sure enough, late afternoon light filtered through the vapour and broke into
colours.
Annabeth held her palm out to me. ‘Drachma, please.’
I handed it over.
She raised the coin over her head. ‘O goddess, accept our offering.’
She threw the drachma into the rainbow. It disappeared in a golden shimmer.
‘Half-Blood Hill,’ Annabeth requested.
For a moment, nothing happened.
Then I was looking through the mist at strawberry fields, and the Long Island
Sound in the distance. We seemed to be on the porch of the Big House. Standing
with his back to us at the railing was a sandy-haired guy in shorts and an orange
tank top. He was holding a bronze sword and seemed to be staring intently at
something down in the meadow.
‘Luke!’ I called.
He turned, eyes wide. I could swear he was standing a metre in front of me
through a screen of mist, except I could only see the part of him that appeared in
the rainbow.
‘Percy!’ His scarred face broke into a grin. ‘Is that Annabeth, too? Thank the
gods! Are you guys okay?’
‘We’re… uh… fine,’ Annabeth stammered. She was madly straightening her
dirty T-shirt, trying to comb the loose hair out of her face. ‘We thought – Chiron
– I mean –’
‘He’s down at the cabins.’ Luke’s smile faded. ‘We’re having some issues with
the campers. Listen, is everything cool with you? Is Grover all right?’
‘I’m right here,’ Grover called. He held the nozzle out to one side and stepped
into Luke’s line of vision. ‘What kind of issues?’
Just then a big Lincoln Continental pulled into the car wash with its stereo
turned to maximum hip-hop. As the car slid into the next stall, the bass from the
subwoofers vibrated so much, it shook the pavement.
‘Chiron had to – what’s that noise?’ Luke yelled.
‘I’ll take care of it!’ Annabeth yelled back, looking very relieved to have an
excuse to get out of sight. ‘Grover, come on!’
‘What?’ Grover said. ‘But –’
‘Give Percy the nozzle and come on!’she ordered.
Grover muttered something about girls being harder to understand than the
Oracle at Delphi, then he handed me the spray gun and followed Annabeth.
I readjusted the hose so I could keep the rainbow going and still see Luke.
‘Chiron had to break up a fight,’ Luke shouted to me over the music. ‘Things
are pretty tense here, Percy. Word leaked out about the Zeus–Poseidon stand-off.
We’re still not sure how – probably the same scumbag who summoned the
hellhound. Now the campers are starting to take sides. It’s shaping up like the
Trojan War all over again. Aphrodite, Ares and Apollo are backing Poseidon,
more or less. Athena is backing Zeus.’
I shuddered to think that Clarisse’s cabin would ever be on my dad’s side for
anything. In the next stall, I heard Annabeth and some guy arguing with each
other, then the music’s volume decreased drastically.
‘So what’s your status?’ Luke asked me. ‘Chiron will be sorry he missed you.’
I told him pretty much everything, including my dreams. It felt so good to see
him, to feel like I was back at camp even for a few minutes, that I didn’t realize
how long I had talked until the beeper went off on the spray machine, and I
realized I only had one more minute before the water shut off.
‘I wish I could be there,’ Luke told me. ‘We can’t help from here, I’m afraid,
but listen… it had to be Hades who took the master bolt. He was there at
Olympus at the winter solstice. I was chaperoning a field trip and we saw him.’
‘But Chiron said the gods can’t take each other’s magic items directly.’
‘That’s true,’ Luke said, looking troubled. ‘Still… Hades has the helmet of
darkness. How could anybody else sneak into the throne room and steal the
master bolt? You’d have to be invisible.’
We were both silent, until Luke seemed to realize what he’d said.
‘Oh, hey,’ he protested. ‘I didn’t mean Annabeth. She and I have known each
other forever. She would never… I mean, she’s like a little sister to me.’
I wondered if Annabeth would like that description. In the stall next to us, the
music stopped completely. A man screamed in terror, car doors slammed and the
Lincoln peeled out of the car wash.
‘You’d better go see what that was,’ Luke said. ‘Listen, are you wearing the
flying shoes? I’ll feel better if I know they’ve done you some good.’
‘Oh… uh, yeah!’ I tried not to sound like a guilty liar. ‘Yeah, they’ve come in
handy.’
‘Really?’ He grinned. ‘They fit and everything?’
The water shut off. The mist started to evaporate.
‘Well, take care of yourself out there in Denver,’ Luke called, his voice getting
fainter. ‘And tell Grover it’ll be better this time! Nobody will get turned into a
pine tree if he just –’
But the mist was gone, and Luke’s image faded to nothing. I was alone in a
wet, empty car-wash stall.
Annabeth and Grover came around the corner, laughing, but stopped when
they saw my face. Annabeth’s smile faded. ‘What happened, Percy? What did
Luke say?’
‘Not much,’ I lied, my stomach feeling as empty as a Big Three cabin. ‘Come
on, let’s find some dinner.’
A few minutes later, we were sitting at a booth in a gleaming chrome diner. All
around us, families were eating burgers and drinking milkshakes and sodas.
Finally the waitress came over. She raised her eyebrow sceptically. ‘Well?’
I said, ‘We, um, want to order dinner.’
‘You kids have money to pay for it?’
Grover’s lower lip quivered. I was afraid he would start bleating, or worse,
start eating the linoleum. Annabeth looked ready to pass out from hunger.
I was trying to think up a sob story for the waitress when a rumble shook the
whole building; a motorcycle the size of a baby elephant had pulled up to the
kerb.
All conversation in the diner stopped. The motorcycle’s headlight glared red.
Its gas tank had flames painted on it, and a shotgun holster riveted to either side,
complete with shotguns. The seat was leather – but leather that looked like…
well, Caucasian human skin.
The guy on the bike would’ve made pro wrestlers run for Mama. He was
dressed in a red muscle shirt and black jeans and a black leather duster, with a
hunting knife strapped to his thigh. He wore red wraparound shades, and he had
the cruellest, most brutal face I’d ever seen – handsome, I guess, but wicked –
with an oily black crew cut and cheeks that were scarred from many, many
fights. The weird thing was, I felt like I’d seen his face somewhere before.
As he walked into the diner, a hot, dry wind blew through the place. All the
people rose, as if they were hypnotized, but the biker waved his hand
dismissively and they all sat down again. Everybody went back to their
conversations. The waitress blinked, as if somebody had just pressed the rewind
button on her brain. She asked us again, ‘You kids have money to pay for it?’
The biker said, ‘It’s on me.’ He slid into our booth, which was way too small
for him, and crowded Annabeth against the window.
He looked up at the waitress, who was gaping at him, and said, ‘Are you still
here?’
He pointed at her, and she stiffened. She turned as if she’d been spun around,
then marched back towards the kitchen.
The biker looked at me. I couldn’t see his eyes behind the red shades, but bad
feelings started boiling in my stomach. Anger, resentment, bitterness. I wanted to
hit a wall. I wanted to pick a fight with somebody. Who did this guy think he
was?
He gave me a wicked grin. ‘So you’re old Seaweed’s kid, huh?’
I should’ve been surprised, or scared, but instead I felt like I was looking at
my stepdad, Gabe. I wanted to rip this guy’s head off. ‘What’s it to you?’
Annabeth’s eyes flashed me a warning. ‘Percy, this is –’
The biker raised his hand.
‘S’okay,’ he said. ‘I don’t mind a little attitude. Long as you remember who’s
the boss. You know who I am, little cousin?’
Then it struck me why this guy looked familiar. He had the same vicious sneer
as some of the kids at Camp Half-Blood, the ones from cabin five.
‘You’re Clarisse’s dad,’ I said. ‘Ares, god of war.’
Ares grinned and took off his shades. Where his eyes should’ve been, there
was only fire, empty sockets glowing with miniature nuclear explosions. ‘That’s
right, punk. I heard you broke Clarisse’s spear.’
‘She was asking for it.’
‘Probably. That’s cool. I don’t fight my kids’ fights, you know? What I’m here
for – I heard you were in town. I got a little proposition for you.’
The waitress came back with heaping trays of food – cheeseburgers, fries,
onion rings and chocolate shakes.
Ares handed her a few gold drachmas.
She looked nervously at the coins. ‘But, these aren’t…’
Ares pulled out his huge knife and started cleaning his fingernails. ‘Problem,
sweetheart?’
The waitress swallowed, then left with the gold.
‘You can’t do that,’ I told Ares. ‘You can’t just threaten people with a knife.’
Ares laughed. Are you kidding? I love this country. Best place since Sparta.
Don’t you carry a weapon, punk? You should. Dangerous world out there.
Which brings me to my proposition. I need you to do me a favour.’
‘What favour could I do for a god?’
‘Something a god doesn’t have time to do himself. It’s nothing much. I left my
shield at an abandoned water park here in town. I was going on a little… date
with my girlfriend. We were interrupted. I left my shield behind. I want you to
fetch it for me.’
‘Why don’t you go back and get it yourself?’
The fire in his eye sockets glowed a little hotter.
‘Why don’t I turn you into prairie dog and run you over with my Harley?
Because I don’t feel like it. A god is giving you an opportunity to prove yourself,
Percy Jackson. Will you prove yourself a coward?’ He leaned forward. ‘Or
maybe you only fight when there’s a river to dive into, so your daddy can protect
you.’
I wanted to punch this guy, but somehow, I knew he was waiting for that.
Ares’s power was causing my anger. He’d love it if I attacked. I didn’t want to
give him the satisfaction.
‘We’re not interested,’ I said. ‘We’ve already got a quest.’
Ares’s fiery eyes made me see things I didn’t want to see – blood and smoke
and corpses on the battlefield. ‘I know all about your quest, punk. When that
item was first stolen, Zeus sent his best out looking for it: Apollo, Athena,
Artemis and me, naturally. If I couldn’t sniff out a weapon that powerful…’ He
licked his lips, as if the very thought of the master bolt made him hungry.
‘Well… if I couldn’t find it, you got no hope. Nevertheless, I’m trying to give
you the benefit of a doubt. Your dad and I go way back. After all, I’m the one
who told him my suspicions about old Corpse Breath.’
‘You told him Hades stole the bolt?’
‘Sure. Framing somebody to start a war. Oldest trick in the book. I recognized
it immediately. In a way, you got me to thank for your little quest.’
‘Thanks,’ I grumbled.
‘Hey, I’m a generous guy. Just do my little job, and I’ll help you on your way.
I’ll arrange a ride west for you and your friends.’
‘We’re doing fine on our own.’
‘Yeah, right. No money. No wheels. No clue what you’re up against. Help me
out, and maybe I’ll tell you something you need to know. Something about your
mom.’
‘My mom?’
He grinned. ‘That got your attention. The water park is a mile west on
Delancy. You can’t miss it. Look for the Tunnel of Love ride.’
‘What interrupted your date?’ I asked. ‘Something scare you off?’
Ares bared his teeth, but I’d seen his threatening look before on Clarisse.
There was something false about it, almost like he was nervous.
‘You’re lucky you met me, punk, and not one of the other Olympians. They’re
not as forgiving of rudeness as I am. I’ll meet you back here when you’re done.
Don’t disappoint me.’
After that I must have fainted, or fallen into a trance, because when I opened
my eyes again Ares was gone. I might’ve thought the conversation had been a
dream, but Annabeth and Grover’s expressions told me otherwise.
‘Not good,’ Grover said. ‘Ares sought you out, Percy. This is not good.’
I stared out the window. The motorcycle had disappeared.
Did Ares really know something about my mom, or was he just playing with
me? Now that he was gone, all the anger had drained out of me. I realized Ares
must love to mess with people’s emotions. That was his power – cranking up the
passions so badly, they clouded your ability to think.
‘It’s probably some kind of trick,’ I said. ‘Forget Ares. Let’s just go.’
‘We can’t,’ Annabeth said. ‘Look, I hate Ares as much as anybody, but you
don’t ignore the gods unless you want serious bad fortune. He wasn’t kidding
about turning you into a rodent.’
I looked down at my cheeseburger, which suddenly didn’t seem so appetizing.
‘Why does he need us?’
‘Maybe it’s a problem that requires brains,’ Annabeth said. ‘Ares has strength.
That’s all he has. Even strength has to bow to wisdom sometimes.’
‘But this water park… he acted almost scared. What would make a war god
run away like that?’
Annabeth and Grover glanced nervously at each other.
Annabeth said, ‘I’m afraid well have to find out.’
The sun was sinking behind the mountains by the time we found the water park.
Judging from the sign, it once had been called WATERLAND, but now some of
the letters were smashed out, so it read WAT R A D.
The main gate was padlocked and topped with barbed wire. Inside, huge dry
waterslides and tubes and pipes curled everywhere, leading to empty pools. Old
tickets and advertisements fluttered around the tarmac. With night coming on,
the place looked sad and creepy.
‘If Ares brings his girlfriend here for a date,’ I said, staring up at the barbed
wire, ‘I’d hate to see what she looks like.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth warned. ‘Be more respectful.’
‘Why? I thought you hated Ares.’
‘He’s still a god. And his girlfriend is very temperamental’
‘You don’t want to insult her looks,’ Grover added.
‘Who is she? Echidna?’
‘No, Aphrodite,’ Grover said, a little dreamily. ‘Goddess of love.’
‘I thought she was married to somebody,’ I said. ‘Hephaestus.’
‘What’s your point?’ he asked.
‘Oh.’ I suddenly felt the need to change the subject. ‘So how do we get in?’
‘Maia!’ Grover’s shoes sprouted wings.
He flew over the fence, did an unintended somersault in midair, then stumbled
to a landing on the opposite side. He dusted off his jeans, as if he’d planned the
whole thing. ‘You guys coming?’
Annabeth and I had to climb the old-fashioned way, holding down the barbed
wire for each other as we crawled over the top.
The shadows grew long as we walked through the park, checking out the
attractions. There was Ankle Biter Island, Head Over Wedgie and Dude,
Where’s My Swimsuit?
No monsters came to get us. Nothing made the slightest noise.
We found a souvenir shop that had been left open. Merchandise still lined the
shelves: snow globes, pencils, postcards and racks of –
‘Clothes,’ Annabeth said. ‘Fresh clothes.’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘But you can’t just –’
‘Watch me.’
She snatched an entire row of stuff of the racks and disappeared into the
changing room. A few minutes later she came out in Waterland flower-print
shorts, a big red Waterland T-shirt and commemorative Waterland surf shoes. A
Waterland backpack was slung over her shoulder, obviously stuffed with more
goodies.
‘What the heck.’ Grover shrugged. Soon, all three of us were decked out like
walking advertisements for the defunct theme park.
We continued searching for the Tunnel of Love. I got the feeling that the
whole park was holding its breath. ‘So Ares and Aphrodite,’ I said, to keep my
mind off the growing dark, ‘they have a thing going?’
‘That’s old gossip, Percy,’ Annabeth told me. ‘Three-thousand-year-old
gossip.’
‘What about Aphrodite’s husband?’
‘Well, you know,’ she said. ‘Hephaestus. The blacksmith. He was crippled
when he was a baby, thrown off Mount Olympus by Zeus. So he isn’t exactly
handsome. Clever with his hands and all, but Aphrodite isn’t into brains and
talent, you know?’
‘She likes bikers.’
‘Whatever.’
‘Hephaestus knows?’
‘Oh sure,’ Annabeth said. ‘He caught them together once. I mean, literally
caught them, in a golden net, and invited all the gods to come and laugh at them.
Hephaestus is always trying to embarrass them. That’s why they meet in out-ofthe-way places, like…’
She stopped, looking straight ahead. ‘Like that.’
In front of us was an empty pool that would’ve been awesome for
skateboarding. It was at least fifty metres across and shaped like a bowl.
Around the rim, a dozen bronze statues of Cupid stood guard with wings
spread and bows ready to fire. On the opposite side from us, a tunnel opened up,
probably where the water flowed into when the pool was full. The sign above it
read: THRILL RIDE O’ LOVE: THIS IS NOT YOUR PARENTS’ TUNNEL OF
LOVE!
Grover crept towards the edge. ‘Guys, look.’
Marooned at the bottom of the pool was a pink-and-white two-seater boat with
a canopy over the top and little hearts painted all over it. In the left seat, glinting
in the fading light, was Ares’s shield, a polished circle of bronze.
‘This is too easy,’ I said. ‘So we just walk down there and get it?’
Annabeth ran her fingers along the base of the nearest Cupid statue.
‘There’s a Greek letter carved here,’she said. ‘Eta. I wonder…’
‘Grover,’ I said, ‘you smell any monsters?’
He sniffed the wind. ‘Nothing.’
‘Nothing – like, in-the-Arch-and-you-didn’t-smell-Echidna nothing, or really
nothing?’
Grover looked hurt. ‘I told you, that was underground.’
‘Okay, I’m sorry.’ I took a deep breath. ‘I’m going down there.’
‘I’ll go with you.’ Grover didn’t sound too enthusiastic, but I got the feeling
he was trying to make up for what had happened in St Louis.
‘No,’ I told him. ‘I want you to stay up top with the flying shoes. You’re the
Red Baron, remember? I’ll be counting on you for backup, in case something
goes wrong.’
Grover puffed up his chest a little. ‘Sure. But what could go wrong?’
‘I don’t know. Just a feeling. Annabeth, come with me –’
‘Are you kidding?’ She looked at me as if I’d just dropped from the moon.
Her cheeks were bright red.
‘What’s the problem now?’ I demanded.
‘Me, go with you to the… the “Thrill Ride of Love”? How embarrassing is
that? What if somebody saw me?’
‘Who’s going to see you?’ But my face was burning now, too. Leave it to a
girl to make everything complicated. ‘Fine,’ I told her. ‘I’ll do it myself.’ But
when I started down the side of the pool, she followed me, muttering about how
boys always messed things up.
We reached the boat. The shield was propped on one seat, and next to it was a
lady’s silk scarf. I tried to imagine Ares and Aphrodite here, a couple of gods
meeting in a junked-out amusement-park ride. Why? Then I noticed something I
hadn’t seen from up top: mirrors all the way around the rim of the pool, facing
this spot. We could see ourselves no matter which direction we looked. That
must be it. While Ares and Aphrodite were smooching with each other they
could look at their favourite people: themselves.
I picked up the scarf. It shimmered pink, and the perfume was indescribable –
rose, or mountain laurel. Something good. I smiled, a little dreamy, and was
about to rub the scarf against my cheek when Annabeth ripped it out of my hand
and stuffed it in her pocket. ‘Oh, no you don’t. Stay away from that love magic.’
‘What?’
‘Just get the shield, Seaweed Brain, and let’s get out of here.’
The moment I touched the shield, I knew we were in trouble. My hand broke
through something that had been connecting it to the dashboard. A cobweb, I
thought, but then I looked at a strand of it on my palm and saw it was some kind
of metal filament, so fine it was almost invisible. A tripwire.
‘Wait,’ Annabeth said.
‘Too late.’
‘There’s another Greek letter on the side of the boat, another Eta. This is a
trap.’
Noise erupted all around us, of a million gears grinding, as if the whole pool
were turning into one giant machine.
Grover yelled, ‘Guys!’
Up on the rim, the Cupid statues were drawing their bows into firing position.
Before I could suggest taking cover, they shot, but not at us. They fired at each
other, across the rim of the pool. Silky cables trailed from the arrows, arcing
over the pool and anchoring where they landed to form a huge golden asterisk.
Then smaller metallic threads started weaving together magically between the
main strands, making a net.
‘We have to get out,’ I said.
‘Duh!’ Annabeth said.
I grabbed the shield and we ran, but going up the slope of the pool was not as
easy as going down.
‘Come on!’ Grover shouted.
He was trying to hold open a section of the net for us, but wherever he
touched it, the golden threads started to wrap around his hands.
The Cupids’ heads popped open. Out came video cameras. Spotlights rose up
all around the pool, blinding us with illumination, and a loudspeaker voice
boomed: ‘Live to Olympus in one minute… Fifty-nine seconds, fifty-eight…’
‘Hephaestus!’ Annabeth screamed. ‘I’m so stupid! Eta is “H”. He made this
trap to catch his wife with Ares. Now we’re going to be broadcast live to
Olympus and look like absolute fools!’
We’d almost made it to the rim when the row of mirrors opened like hatches
and thousands of tiny metallic… things poured out.
Annabeth screamed.
It was an army of wind-up creepy-crawlies: bronze-gear bodies, spindly legs,
little pincer mouths, all scuttling towards us in a wave of clacking, whirring
metal.
‘Spiders!’ Annabeth said. ‘Sp – sp – aaaah!’
I’d never seen her like this before. She fell backwards in terror and almost got
overwhelmed by the spider robots before I pulled her up and dragged her back
towards the boat.
The things were coming out from all around the rim now, millions of them,
flooding towards the centre of the pool, completely surrounding us. I told myself
they probably weren’t programmed to kill, just corral us and bite us and make us
look stupid. Then again, this was a trap meant for gods. And we weren’t gods.
Annabeth and I climbed into the boat. I started kicking away the spiders as
they swarmed aboard. I yelled at Annabeth to help me, but she was too paralysed
to do much more than scream.
‘Thirty, twenty-nine,’ called the loudspeaker.
The spiders started spitting out strands of metal thread, trying to tie us down.
The strands were easy enough to break at first, but there were so many of them,
and the spiders just kept coming. I kicked one away from Annabeth’s leg and its
pincers took a chunk out of my new surf shoe.
Grover hovered above the pool in his flying trainers, trying to pull the net
loose, but it wouldn’t budge.
Think, I told myself. Think.
The tunnel of love entrance was under the net. We could use it as an exit,
except that it was blocked by a million robot spiders.
‘Fifteen, fourteen,’ the loudspeaker called.
Water, I thought. Where does the ride’s water come from?
Then I saw them: huge water pipes behind the mirrors, where the spiders had
come from. And up above the net, next to one of the Cupids, a glass-windowed
booth that must be the controller’s station.
‘Grover!’ I yelled. ‘Get into that booth! Find the “on” switch!’
‘But –’
‘Do it!’ It was a crazy hope, but it was our only chance. The spiders were all
over the prow of the boat now. Annabeth was screaming her head off. I had to
get us out of here.
Grover was in the controller’s booth now, slamming away at the buttons.
‘Five, four –’
Grover looked up at me hopelessly, raising his hands. He was letting me know
that he’d pushed every button, but still nothing was happening.
I closed my eyes and thought about waves, rushing water, the Mississippi
River. I felt a familiar tug in my gut. I tried to imagine that I was dragging the
ocean all the way to Denver.
‘Two, one, zero!’
Water exploded out of the pipes. It roared into the pool, sweeping away the
spiders. I pulled Annabeth into the seat next to me and fastened her seatbelt just
as the tidal wave slammed into our boat, over the top, whisking the spiders away
and dousing us completely, but not capsizing us. The boat turned, lifted in the
flood, and spun in circles around the whirlpool.
The water was full of short-circuiting spiders, some of them smashing against
the pool’s concrete wall with such force they burst.
Spotlights glared down at us. The Cupid-cams were rolling, live to Olympus.
But I could only concentrate on controlling the boat. I willed it to ride the
current, to keep away from the wall. Maybe it was my imagination, but the boat
seemed to respond. At least, it didn’t break into a million pieces. We spun
around one last time, the water level now almost high enough to shred us against
the metal net. Then the boat’s nose turned towards the tunnel and we rocketed
through into the darkness.
Annabeth and I held tight, both of us screaming as the boat shot curls and
hugged corners and took forty-five degree plunges past pictures of Romeo and
Juliet and a bunch of other Valentine’s Day stuff.
Then we were out of the tunnel, the night air whistling through our hair as the
boat barrelled straight towards the exit.
If the ride had been in working order, we would’ve sailed off a ramp between
the golden Gates of Love and splashed down safely in the exit pool. But there
was a problem. The Gates of Love were chained. Two boats that had been
washed out of the tunnel before us were now piled against the barricade – one
submerged, the other cracked in half.
‘Unfasten your seat belt,’ I yelled to Annabeth.
‘Are you crazy?’
‘Unless you want to get smashed to death.’ I strapped Ares’s shield to my arm.
‘We’re going to have to jump for it.’ My idea was simple and insane. As the boat
struck, we would use its force like a springboard to jump the gate. I’d heard of
people surviving car crashes that way, getting thrown ten or fifteen metres away
from an accident. With luck, we would land in the pool.
Annabeth seemed to understand. She gripped my hand as the gates got closer.
‘When I say go,’ I said.
‘No! When I say go!’
‘What?’
‘Simple physics!’she yelled. ‘Force times the trajectory angle –’
‘Fine!’ I shouted. ‘When you say go!’
She hesitated… hesitated… then yelled, ‘Now!’
Crack!
Annabeth was right. If we’d jumped when I thought we should’ve, we
would’ve crashed into the gates. She got us maximum lift.
Unfortunately, that was a little more than we needed. Our boat smashed into
the pileup and we were thrown into the air, straight over the gates, over the pool,
and down towards solid tarmac.
Something grabbed me from behind.
Annabeth yelled, ‘Ouch!’
Grover!
In midair, he had grabbed me by the shirt, and Annabeth by the arm, and was
trying to pull us out of a crash landing, but Annabeth and I had all the
momentum.
‘You’re too heavy!’ Grover said. ‘We’re going down!’
We spiralled towards the ground, Grover doing his best to slow the fall.
We smashed into a photo-board, Grover’s head going straight into the hole
where tourists would put their faces, pretending to be Noo-Noo the Friendly
Whale. Annabeth and I tumbled to the ground, banged up but alive. Ares’s shield
was still on my arm.
Once we caught our breath, Annabeth and I got Grover out of the photo-board
and thanked him for saving our lives. I looked back at the Thrill Ride of Love.
The water was subsiding. Our boat had been smashed to pieces against the gates.
A hundred metres away, at the entrance pool, the Cupids were still filming.
The statues had swivelled so that their cameras were trained straight on us, the
spotlights in our faces.
‘Show’s over!’ I yelled. ‘Thank you! Goodnight!’
The Cupids turned back to their original positions. The lights shut off. The
park went quiet and dark again, except for the gentle trickle of water into the
Thrill Ride of Love’s exit pool. I wondered if Olympus had gone to a
commercial break, or if our ratings had been any good.
I hated being teased. I hated being tricked. And I had plenty of experience
handling bullies who liked to do that stuff to me. I hefted the shield on my arm
and turned to my friends. ‘We need to have a little talk with Ares.’