CHAPTER 12: I Go Snowboarding With A Pig
We’d arrived on the outskirts of a little ski town nestled in the mountains. The
sign said WELCOME TO CLOUDCROFT, NEW MEXICO. The air was cold
and thin. The roofs of the cabins were heaped with snow, and dirty mounds of it
were piled up on the sides of the streets. Tall pine trees loomed over the valley,
casting pitch-black shadows, though the morning was sunny.
Even with my lion-skin coat, I was freezing by the time we got to Main Street,
which was about half a mile from the train tracks. As we walked, I told Grover
about my conversation with Apollo the night before – how he’d told me to seek
out Nereus in San Francisco.
Grover looked uneasy. ‘That’s good, I guess. But we’ve got to get there first.’
I tried not to get too depressed about our chances. I didn’t want to send Grover
into a panic, but I knew we had another huge deadline looming, aside from
saving Artemis in time for her council of the gods. The General had said
Annabeth would only be kept alive until the winter solstice. That was Friday,
only four days away. And he’d said something about a sacrifice. I didn’t like the
sound of that at all.
We stopped in the middle of town. You could pretty much see everything from
there: a school, a bunch of tourist stores and cafés, some ski cabins, and a
grocery store.
‘Great,’ Thalia said, looking around. ‘No bus station. No taxis. No car rental.
No way out.’
‘There’s a coffee shop!’said Grover.
‘Yes,’ Zoë said. ‘Coffee is good.’
‘And pastries,’ Grover said dreamily. ‘And wax paper.’
Thalia sighed. ‘Fine. How about you two go get us some food. Percy, Bianca
and I will check in the grocery store. Maybe they can give us directions.’
We agreed to meet back in front of the grocery store in fifteen minutes. Bianca
looked a little uncomfortable coming with us, but she did.
Inside the store, we found out a few valuable things about Cloudcroft: there
wasn’t enough snow for skiing, the grocery store sold rubber rats for a dollar
each, and there was no easy way in or out of town unless you had your own car.
‘You could call for a taxi from Alamogordo,’ the clerk said doubtfully. ‘That’s
down at the bottom of the mountains, but it would take at least an hour to get
here. Cost several hundred dollars.’
The clerk looked so lonely, I bought a rubber rat. Then we headed back
outside and stood on the porch.
‘Wonderful,’ Thalia grumped. ‘I’m going to walk down the street, see if
anybody in the other shops has a suggestion.’
‘But the clerk said –’
‘I know,’she told me. ‘I’m checking anyway.’
I let her go. I knew how it felt to be restless. All half-bloods had attention
deficit problems because of our inborn battlefield reflexes. We couldn’t stand
just waiting around. Also, I had a feeling Thalia was still upset over our
conversation last night about Luke.
Bianca and I stood together awkwardly. I mean… I was never very
comfortable talking one on one with girls anyway, and I’d never been alone with
Bianca before. I wasn’t sure what to say, especially now that she was a Hunter
and everything.
‘Nice rat,’she said at last.
I set it on the porch railing. Maybe it would attract more business for the store.
‘So… how do you like being a Hunter so far?’ I asked.
She pursed her lips. ‘You’re not still mad at me for joining, are you?’
‘Nah. Long as, you know… you’re happy.’
‘I’m not sure “happy” is the right word, with Lady Artemis gone. But being a
Hunter is definitely cool. I feel calmer somehow. Everything seems to have
slowed down around me. I guess that’s the immortality.’
I stared at her, trying to see the difference. She did seem more confident than
before, more at peace. She didn’t hide her face under a green cap any more. She
kept her hair tied back, and she looked me right in the eyes when she spoke.
With a shiver, I realized that five hundred or a thousand years from now Bianca
di Angelo would look exactly the same as she did today. She might be having a
conversation like this with some other half-blood, long after I was dead, but
Bianca would still look twelve years old.
‘Nico didn’t understand my decision,’ Bianca murmured. She looked at me
like she wanted assurance it was okay.
‘He’ll be all right,’ I said. ‘Camp Half-Blood takes in a lot of young kids.
They did that for Annabeth.’
Bianca nodded. ‘I hope we find her. Annabeth, I mean. She’s lucky to have a
friend like you.’
‘Lot of good it did her.’
‘Don’t blame yourself, Percy. You risked your life to save my brother and me.
I mean, that was seriously brave. If I hadn’t met you, I wouldn’t have felt okay
about leaving Nico at the camp. I figured if there were people like you there,
Nico would be fine. You’re a good guy.’
The compliment took me by surprise. ‘Even though I knocked you down in
capture the flag?’
She laughed. ‘Okay. Except for that, you’re a good guy.’
Two hundred metres away, Grover and Zoë came out of the coffee shop
loaded down with pastry bags and drinks. I kind of didn’t want them to come
back yet. It was weird, but I realized I liked talking to Bianca. She wasn’t so bad.
A lot easier to hang out with than Zoë Nightshade, anyway.
‘So what’s the story with you and Nico?’ I asked her. ‘Where did you go to
school before Westover?’
She frowned. ‘I think it was a boarding school in D.C. It seems like so long
ago.’
‘You never lived with your parents? I mean, your mortal parent?’
‘We were told our parents were dead. There was a bank trust for us. A lot of
money, I think. A lawyer would come by once in a while to check on us. Then
Nico and I had to leave that school.’
‘Why?’
She knitted her eyebrows. ‘We had to go somewhere. I remember it was
important. We travelled a long way. And we stayed in this hotel for a few weeks.
And then… I don’t know. One day a different lawyer came to get us out. He said
it was time for us to leave. He drove us back east, through D.C. Then up into
Maine. And we started going to Westover.’
It was a strange story. Then again, Bianca and Nico were half-bloods. Nothing
would be normal for them.
‘So you’ve been raising Nico pretty much all your life?’ I asked. ‘Just the two
of you?’
She nodded. ‘That’s why I wanted to join the Hunters so badly. I mean, I
know it’s selfish, but I wanted my own life and friends. I love Nico – don’t get
me wrong – I just needed to find out what it would be like not to be a big sister
twenty-four hours a day.’
I thought about last summer, the way I’d felt when I found out I had a Cyclops
for a baby brother. I could relate to what Bianca was saying.
‘Zoë seems to trust you,’ I said. ‘What were you guys talking about, anyway –
something dangerous about the quest?’
‘When?’
‘Yesterday morning on the pavilion,’ I said, before I could stop myself.
‘Something about the General.’
Her face darkened. ‘How did you… The invisibility hat. Were you
eavesdropping?’
‘No! I mean, not really. I just –’
I was saved from trying to explain when Zoë and Grover arrived with the
drinks and pastries. Hot chocolate for Bianca and me. Coffee for them. I got a
blueberry muffin, and it was so good I could almost ignore the outraged look
Bianca was giving me.
‘We should do the tracking spell,’ Zoë said. ‘Grover, do you have any acorns
left?’
‘Umm,’ Grover mumbled. He was chewing on a bran muffin, wrapper and all.
‘I think so. I just need to –’
He froze.
I was about to ask what was wrong when a warm breeze rustled past, like a
gust of springtime had got lost in the middle of winter. Fresh air seasoned with
wildflowers and sunshine. And something else – almost like a voice, trying to
say something. A warning.
Zoë gasped. ‘Grover, thy cup.’
Grover dropped his coffee cup, which was decorated with pictures of birds.
Suddenly the birds peeled off the cup and flew away – a tiny flock of doves. My
rubber rat squeaked. It scampered off the railing and into the trees – real fur, real
whiskers.
Grover collapsed next to his coffee, which steamed against the snow. We
gathered round him and tried to wake him up. He groaned, his eyes fluttering.
‘Hey!’ Thalia said, running up from the street. ‘I just… What’s wrong with
Grover?’
‘I don’t know,’ I said. ‘He collapsed.’
‘Uuuuuhhhh,’ Grover groaned.
‘Well, get him up!’ Thalia said. She had her spear in her hand. She looked
behind her as if she were being followed. ‘We have to get out of here.’
We made it to the edge of the town before the first two skeleton warriors
appeared. They stepped from the trees on either side of the road. Instead of grey
camouflage, they were now wearing blue New Mexico State Police uniforms,
but they had the same transparent grey skin and yellow eyes.
They drew their handguns. I’ll admit I used to think it would be kind of cool
to learn how to shoot a gun, but I changed my mind as soon as the skeleton
warriors pointed theirs at me.
Thalia tapped her bracelet. Aegis spiralled to life on her arm, but the warriors
didn’t flinch. Their glowing yellow eyes bored right into me.
I drew Riptide, though I wasn’t sure what good it would do against guns.
Zoë and Bianca drew their bows, but Bianca was having trouble because
Grover kept swooning and leaning against her.
‘Back up,’ Thalia said.
We started to – but then I heard a rustling of branches. Two more skeletons
appeared on the road behind us. We were surrounded.
I wondered where the other skeletons were. I’d seen a dozen at the
Smithsonian. Then one of the warriors raised a cell phone to his mouth and
spoke into it.
Except he wasn’t speaking. He made a clattering, clicking sound, like dry
teeth on bone. Suddenly I understood what was going on. The skeletons had split
up to look for us. These skeletons were now calling their brethren. Soon we’d
have a full party on our hands.
‘It’s near,’ Grover moaned.
‘It’s here,’ I said.
‘No,’ he insisted. ‘The gift. The gift from the Wild.’
I didn’t know what he was talking about, but I was worried about his
condition. He was in no shape to walk, much less fight.
‘We’ll have to go one on one,’ Thalia said. ‘Four of them. Four of us. Maybe
they’ll ignore Grover that way.’
‘Agreed,’said Zoë.
‘The Wild!’ Grover moaned.
A warm wind blew through the canyon, rustling the trees, but I kept my eyes
on the skeletons. I remembered the General gloating over Annabeth’s fate. I
remembered the way Luke had betrayed her.
And I charged.
The first skeleton fired. Time slowed down. I won’t say I could see the bullet,
but I could feel its path, the same way I felt water currents in the ocean. I
deflected it off the edge of my blade and kept charging.
The skeleton drew a baton and I sliced off his arms at the elbows. Then I
swung Riptide through his waist and cut him in half.
His bones unknitted and clattered to the tarmac in a heap. Almost
immediately, they began to move, reassembling themselves. The second skeleton
clattered his teeth at me and tried to fire, but I knocked his gun into the snow.
I thought I was doing pretty well, until the other two skeletons shot me in the
back.
‘Percy!’ Thalia screamed.
I landed facedown in the street. Then I realized something… I wasn’t dead.
The impact of the bullets had been dull, like a push from behind, but they hadn’t
hurt me.
The Nemean Lion’s fur! My coat was bulletproof.
Thalia charged the second skeleton. Zoë and Bianca started firing arrows at
the third and fourth. Grover stood there and held his hands out to the trees,
looking like he wanted to hug them.
There was a crashing sound in the forest to our left, like a bulldozer. Maybe
the skeletons’ reinforcements were arriving. I got to my feet and ducked a police
baton. The skeleton I’d cut in half was already fully re-formed, coming after me.
There was no way to stop them. Zoë and Bianca fired at their heads pointblank, but the arrows just whistled straight through their empty skulls. One
lunged at Bianca, and I thought she was a goner, but she whipped out her
hunting knife and stabbed the warrior in the chest. The whole skeleton erupted
into flames, leaving a little pile of ashes and a police badge.
‘How did you do that?’ Zoë asked.
‘I don’t know,’ Bianca said nervously. ‘Lucky shot?’
‘Well, do it again!’
Bianca tried, but the remaining three skeletons were wary of her now. They
pressed us back, keeping us at baton’s length.
‘Plan?’ I said as we retreated.
Nobody answered. The trees behind the skeletons were shivering. Branches
were cracking.
‘A gift,’ Grover muttered.
And then, with a mighty roar, the largest pig I’d ever seen came crashing into
the road. It was a wild boar, ten metres high, with a snotty pink snout and tusks
the size of canoes. Its back bristled with brown hair, and its eyes were wild and
angry.
‘REEEEEEEEET!’ it squealed, and raked the three skeletons aside with its
tusks. The force was so great they went flying over the trees and into the side of
the mountain, where they smashed to pieces, thigh bones and arm bones twirling
everywhere.
Then the pig turned on us.
Thalia raised her spear, but Grover yelled, ‘Don’t kill it!’
The boar grunted and pawed the ground, ready to charge.
‘That’s the Erymanthian Boar,’ Zoë said, trying to stay calm. ‘I don’t think we
can kill it.’
‘It’s a gift,’ Grover said. ‘A blessing from the Wild!’
The boar said ‘REEEEEET!’ and swung its tusk. Zoë and Bianca dived out of
the way. I had to push Grover so he wouldn’t get launched into the mountain on
the Boar Tusk Express.
‘Yeah, I feel blessed!’ I said. ‘Scatter!’
We ran in different directions, and for a moment the boar was confused.
‘It wants to kill us!’ Thalia said.
‘Of course,’ Grover said. ‘It’s wild!’
‘So how is that a blessing?’ Bianca asked.
It seemed a fair question to me, but the pig was offended and charged her. She
was faster than I’d realized. She rolled out of the way of its hooves and came up
behind the beast. It lashed out with its tusks and pulverized the WELCOME TO
CLOUDCROFT sign.
I racked my brain, trying to remember the myth of the boar. I was pretty sure
Hercules had fought this thing once, but I couldn’t remember how he’d beaten it.
I had a vague memory of the boar ploughing down several Greek cities before
Hercules managed to subdue it. I hoped Cloudcroft was insured against giant
wild boar attacks.
‘Keep moving!’ Zoë yelled. She and Bianca ran in opposite directions. Grover
danced around the boar, playing his pipes while the boar snorted and tried to
gouge him. But Thalia and I won the prize for bad luck. When the boar turned on
us, Thalia made the mistake of raising Aegis in defence. The sight of the Medusa
head made the boar squeal in outrage. Maybe it looked too much like one of his
relatives. The boar charged us.
We only managed to keep ahead of it because we ran uphill, and we could
dodge in and out of trees while the boar had to plough through them.
On the other side of the hill, I found an old stretch of train tracks, half buried
in the snow.
‘This way!’ I grabbed Thalia’s arm and we ran along the rails while the boar
roared behind us, slipping and sliding as it tried to navigate the steep hillside. Its
hooves were just not made for this, thank the gods.
Ahead of us, I saw a covered tunnel. Past that, an old trestle bridge spanning a
gorge. I had a crazy idea.
‘Follow me!’
Thalia slowed down – I didn’t have time to ask why – but I pulled her along
and she reluctantly followed. Behind us, a ten-ton pig tank was knocking down
pine trees and crushing boulders under its hooves as it chased us.
Thalia and I ran into the tunnel and came out on the other side.
‘No!’ Thalia screamed.
She’d turned as white as ice. We were at the edge of the bridge. Below, the
mountain dropped away into a snow-filled gorge about twenty metres below.
The boar was right behind us.
‘Come on!’ I said. ‘It’ll hold our weight, probably.’
‘I can’t!’ Thalia yelled. Her eyes were wild with fear.
The boar smashed into the covered tunnel, tearing through at full speed.
‘Now!’ I yelled at Thalia.
She looked down and swallowed. I swear she was turning green.
I didn’t have time to process why. The boar was charging through the tunnel,
straight towards us. Plan B. I tackled Thalia and sent us both sideways off the
edge of the bridge, into the side of the mountain. We slid on Aegis like a
snowboard, over rocks and mud and snow, racing downhill. The boar was less
fortunate; it couldn’t turn that fast, so all ten tons of the monster charged out
onto the tiny trestle, which buckled under its weight. The boar free-fell into the
gorge with a mighty squeal and landed in a snowdrift with a huge POOOOOF!
Thalia and I skidded to a stop. We were both breathing hard. I was cut up and
bleeding. Thalia had pine needles in her hair. Next to us, the wild boar was
squealing and struggling. All I could see was the bristly tip of its back. It was
wedged completely in the snow like Styrofoam packing. It didn’t seem to be
hurt, but it wasn’t going anywhere, either.
I looked at Thalia. ‘You’re afraid of heights.’
Now that we were safely down the mountain, her eyes had their usual angry
look. ‘Don’t be stupid.’
‘That explains why you freaked out on Apollo’s bus. Why you didn’t want to
talk about it.’
She took a deep breath. Then she brushed the pine needles out of her hair. ‘If
you tell anyone, I swear –’
‘No, no,’ I said. ‘That’s cool. It’s just… the daughter of Zeus, the lord of the
sky, afraid of heights?’
She was about to knock me into the snow when, above us, Grover’s voice
called, ‘Helloooooo?’
‘Down here!’ I called.
A few minutes later, Zoë, Bianca and Grover joined us. We stood watching the
wild boar struggle in the snow.
‘A blessing of the Wild,’ Grover said, though he now looked agitated.
‘I agree,’ Zoë said. ‘We must use it.’
‘Hold up,’ Thalia said irritably. She still looked like she’d just lost a fight with
a Christmas tree. ‘Explain to me why you’re so sure this pig is a blessing.’
Grover looked over, distracted. ‘It’s our ride west. Do you have any idea how
fast this boar can travel?’
‘Fun,’ I said. ‘Like… pig cowboys.’
Grover nodded. ‘We need to get aboard. I wish… I wish I had more time to
look around. But it’s gone now.’
‘What’s gone?’
Grover didn’t seem to hear me. He walked over to the boar and jumped onto
its back. Already the boar was starting to make some headway through the drift.
Once it broke free, there’d be no stopping it. Grover took out his pipes. He
started playing a snappy tune and tossed an apple in front of the boar. The apple
floated and spun right above the boar’s nose, and the boar went nuts, straining to
get it.
‘Automatic steering,’ Thalia murmured. ‘Great.’
She trudged over and jumped on behind Grover, which still left plenty of room
for the rest of us.
Zoë and Bianca walked towards the boar.
‘Wait a second,’ I said. ‘Do you two know what Grover is talking about – this
wild blessing?’
‘Of course,’ Zoë said. ‘Did you not feel it in the wind? It was so strong… I
never thought I would sense that presence again.’
‘What presence?’
She stared at me like I was an idiot. ‘The Lord of the Wild, of course. Just for
a moment, in the arrival of the boar, I felt the presence of Pan.’