CHAPTER 4: We Burn a Metal Shroud
I dreamed Rachel Elizabeth Dare was throwing darts at my picture.
She was standing in her room … Okay, back up. I have to explain that Rachel
doesn’t have a room. She has the top floor of her family’s mansion, which is a
renovated brownstone in Brooklyn. Her ‘room’ is a huge loft with industrial
lighting and floor-to-ceiling windows. It’s about twice as big as my mom’s
apartment.
Some alt rock was blaring from her paint-covered Bose docking system. As
far as I could tell, Rachel’s only rule about music was that no two songs on her
iPod could sound the same, and they all had to be strange.
She wore a kimono and her hair was frizzy like she’d been sleeping. Her bed
was messed up. Sheets hung over a bunch of artist’s easels. Dirty clothes and old
energy-bar wrappers were strewn around the floor, but when you’ve got a room
that big, the mess doesn’t look so bad. Out of the windows you could see the
entire night-time skyline of Manhattan.
The picture she was attacking was a painting of me standing over the giant
Antaeus. Rachel had painted it a couple of months ago. My expression in the
picture was fierce – disturbing, even – so it was hard to tell if I was the good guy
or the bad guy, but Rachel said I’d looked just like that after the battle.
‘Demigods,’ Rachel muttered as she threw another dart at the canvas. ‘And
their stupid quests.’
Most of the darts bounced off, but a few stuck. One hung off my chin like a
goatee.
Someone pounded on her bedroom door.
‘Rachel!’ a man shouted. ‘What in the world are you doing? Turn off that –’
Rachel scooped up her remote control and shut off the music. ‘Come in!’
Her dad walked in, scowling and blinking from the light. He had rust-coloured
hair a little darker than Rachel’s. It was smushed on one side like he’d lost a
fight with his pillow. His blue silk pyjamas had ‘WD’ monogrammed on the
pocket. Seriously, who has monogrammed pyjamas?
‘What is going on?’ he demanded. ‘It’s three in the morning.’
‘Couldn’t sleep,’ Rachel said.
On the painting, a dart fell off my face. Rachel hid the rest of the darts behind
her back, but Mr Dare noticed.
‘So … I take it your friend isn’t coming to St Thomas?’ That’s what Mr Dare
called me. Never Percy. Just your friend. Or young man if he was talking to me,
which he rarely did.
Rachel knitted her eyebrows. ‘I don’t know.’
‘We leave in the morning,’ her dad said. ‘If he hasn’t made up his mind yet –’
‘He’s probably not coming,’ Rachel said miserably. ‘Happy?’
Mr Dare put his hands behind his back. He paced the room with a stern
expression. I imagined he did that in the boardroom of his land-development
company and made his employees nervous.
‘Are you still having bad dreams?’ he asked. ‘Headaches?’
Rachel threw her darts on the floor. ‘I should never have told you about that.’
‘I’m your father,’ he said. ‘I’m worried about you.’
‘Worried about the family’s reputation,’ Rachel muttered.
Her father didn’t react – maybe because he’d heard that comment before, or
maybe because it was true.
‘We could call Dr Arkwright,’ he suggested. ‘He helped you get through the
death of your hamster.’
‘I was six then,’she said. ‘And no, Dad, I don’t need a therapist. I just …’
She shook her head helplessly.
Her father stopped in front of the windows. He gazed at the New York skyline
as if he owned it – which wasn’t true. He only owned part of it.
‘It will be good for you to get away,’ he decided. ‘You’ve had some unhealthy
influences.’
‘I’m not going to Clarion Ladies’ Academy,’ Rachel said. ‘And my friends are
none of your business.’
Mr Dare smiled, but it wasn’t a warm smile. It was more like, Some day you’ll
realize how silly you sound.
‘Try to get some sleep,’ he urged. ‘We’ll be at the beach by tomorrow night. It
will be fun.’
‘Fun,’ Rachel repeated. ‘Lots of fun.’
Her father exited the room. He left the door open behind him.
Rachel stared at the portrait of me. Then she walked to the easel next to it,
which was covered in a sheet.
‘I hope they’re dreams,’she said.
She uncovered the easel. On it was a hasty charcoal sketch, but Rachel was a
good artist. The picture was definitely Luke as a young boy. He was about nine
years old, with a wide grin and no scar on his face. I had no idea how Rachel
could’ve known what he looked like back then, but the portrait was so good I
had a feeling she wasn’t guessing. From what I knew about Luke’s life (which
wasn’t much) the picture showed him just before he’d found out he was a halfblood and had run away from home.
Rachel stared at the portrait. Then she uncovered the next easel. This picture
was even more disturbing. It showed the Empire State Building with lightning
all around it. In the distance a dark storm was brewing, with a huge hand coming
out of the clouds. At the base of the building a crowd had gathered … but it
wasn’t a normal crowd of tourists and pedestrians. I saw spears, javelins and
banners – the trappings of an army.
‘Percy,’ Rachel muttered as if she knew I was listening. ‘What is going on?’
The dream faded, and the last thing I remember was wishing I could answer
Rachel’s question.
The next morning, I wanted to call her, but there were no phones at camp.
Dionysus and Chiron didn’t need a landline. They just called Olympus with an
Iris-message whenever they needed something. And when demigods use cell
phones, the signals agitate every monster within a hundred miles. It’s like
sending up a flare: Here I am! Please rearrange my face! Even within the safe
borders of camp, that’s not the kind of advertising we wanted to do.
Most demigods (except for Annabeth and a few others) don’t even own cell
phones. And I definitely couldn’t tell Annabeth, ‘Hey, let me borrow your phone
so I can call Rachel!’ To make the call, I would’ve had to leave camp and walk
several miles to the nearest convenience store. Even if Chiron let me go, by the
time I got there, Rachel would’ve been on the plane to St Thomas.
I ate a depressing breakfast by myself at the Poseidon table. I kept staring at
the fissure in the marble floor, where two years ago Nico had banished a bunch
of bloodthirsty skeletons to the Underworld. The memory didn’t exactly improve
my appetite.
After breakfast, Annabeth and I walked down to inspect the cabins. Actually, it
was Annabeth’s turn for inspection. My morning chore was to sort through
reports for Chiron. But since we both hated our jobs, we decided to do them
together so it wouldn’t be so heinous.
We started at the Poseidon cabin, which was basically just me. I’d made my
bunk bed that morning (well, sort of) and straightened the Minotaur horn on the
wall, so I gave myself a four out of five.
Annabeth made a face. ‘You’re being generous.’ She used the end of her
pencil to pick up an old pair of running shorts.
I snatched them away. ‘Hey, give me a break. I don’t have Tyson cleaning up
after me this summer.’
‘Three out of five,’ Annabeth said. I knew better than to argue, so we moved
along.
I tried to skim through Chiron’s stack of reports as we walked. There were
messages from demigods, nature spirits and satyrs all around the country, writing
about the latest monster activity. They were pretty depressing, and my ADHD
brain did not like concentrating on depressing stuff.
Little battles were raging everywhere. Camp recruitment was down to zero.
Satyrs were having trouble finding new demigods and bringing them to HalfBlood Hill because so many monsters were roaming the country. Our friend
Thalia, who led the Hunters of Artemis, hadn’t been heard from in months, and
if Artemis knew what had happened to them, she wasn’t sharing information.
We visited the Aphrodite cabin, which of course got a five out of five. The
beds were perfectly made. The clothes in everyone’s footlocker were colour
coordinated. Fresh flowers bloomed on the windowsills. I wanted to dock a point
because the whole place reeked of designer perfume, but Annabeth ignored me.
‘Great job as usual, Silena,’ Annabeth said.
Silena nodded listlessly. The wall behind her bed was decorated with pictures
of Beckendorf. She sat on her bunk with a box of chocolates on her lap, and I
remembered that her dad owned a chocolate store in the Village, which was how
he’d caught the attention of Aphrodite.
‘You want a bonbon?’ Silena asked. ‘My dad sent them. He thought – he
thought they might cheer me up.’
‘Are they any good?’ I asked.
She shook her head. ‘They taste like cardboard.’
I didn’t have anything against cardboard, so I tried one. Annabeth passed. We
promised to see Silena later and kept going.
As we crossed the commons area, a fight broke out between the Ares and
Apollo cabins. Some Apollo campers armed with fire bombs flew over the Ares
cabin in a chariot pulled by two pegasi. I’d never seen the chariot before, but it
looked like a pretty sweet ride. Soon, the roof of the Ares cabin was burning, and
naiads from the canoe lake rushed over to blow water on it.
Then the Ares campers called down a curse and all the Apollo kids’ arrows
turned to rubber. The Apollo kids kept shooting at the Ares kids but the arrows
bounced off.
Two archers ran by, chased by an angry Ares kid who was yelling in poetry:
‘Curse me, eh? I’ll make you pay!/I don’t want to rhyme all day!’
Annabeth sighed. ‘Not that again. Last time Apollo cursed a cabin, it took a
week for the rhyming couplets to wear off.’
I shuddered. Apollo was god of poetry as well as archery, and I’d heard him
recite in person. I’d almost rather get shot by an arrow.
‘What are they fighting about anyway?’ I asked.
Annabeth ignored me while she scribbled on her inspection scroll, giving both
cabins a one out of five.
I found myself staring at her, which was stupid since I’d seen her a billion
times. She was about the same height as me this summer, which was a relief.
Still, she seemed so much more mature. It was kind of intimidating. I mean sure,
she’d always been cute, but she was starting to be seriously beautiful.
Finally she said, ‘That flying chariot.’
‘What?’
‘You asked what they were fighting about.’
‘Oh. Oh, right.’
‘They captured it in a raid in Philadelphia last week. Some of Luke’s
demigods were there with that flying chariot. The Apollo cabin seized it during
the battle, but Ares cabin led the raid. So they’ve been fighting about who gets it
ever since.’
We ducked as Michael Yew’s chariot dive-bombed an Ares camper. The Ares
camper tried to stab him and cuss him out in rhyming couplets. He was pretty
creative about rhyming those cuss words.
‘We’re fighting for our lives,’ I said, ‘and they’re bickering about some stupid
chariot.’
‘They’ll get over it,’ Annabeth said. ‘Clarisse will come to her senses.’
I wasn’t so sure. That didn’t sound like the Clarisse I knew.
I scanned more reports and we inspected a few more cabins. Demeter got a
four. Hephaestus got a three and probably should’ve gotten lower, but with
Beckendorf being gone and all, we cut them some slack. Hermes got a two,
which was no surprise. All campers who didn’t know their godly parentage were
shoved into the Hermes cabin, and since the gods were kind of forgetful, that
cabin was always overcrowded.
Finally we got to Athena’s cabin, which was orderly and clean as usual. Books
were straightened on the shelves. The armour was polished. Battle maps and
blueprints decorated the walls. Only Annabeth’s bunk was messy. It was covered
in papers and her silver laptop was still running.
‘Vlacas,’ Annabeth muttered, which was basically calling herself an idiot in
Greek.
Her second-in-command Malcolm suppressed a smile. ‘Yeah, um … we
cleaned everything else. Didn’t know if it was safe to move your notes.’
That was probably smart. Annabeth had a bronze knife that she reserved just
for monsters and people who messed with her stuff.
Malcolm grinned at me. ‘We’ll wait outside while you finish inspection.’ The
Athena campers filed out the door while Annabeth cleaned up her bunk.
I shuffled uneasily and pretended to go through some more reports.
Technically, even on inspection, it was against camp rules for two campers of the
opposite sex to be … like, alone in a cabin.
That rule had come up a lot when Silena and Beckendorf started dating. And I
know some of you might be thinking: aren’t all demigods related on the godly
side, and doesn’t that make dating gross? But the thing is, the godly side of your
family doesn’t count genetically speaking, since gods don’t have DNA. A
demigod would never think about dating someone who had the same godly
parent. Like two kids from Athena cabin? No way. But a daughter of Aphrodite
and a son of Hephaestus? They’re not related. So it’s no problem.
Anyway, for some strange reason I was thinking about this as I watched
Annabeth straighten up. She closed her laptop, which she’d been given as a gift
from the inventor Daedalus last summer.
I cleared my throat. ‘So … get any good info from that thing?’
‘Too much,’ she said. ‘Daedalus had so many ideas I could spend fifty years
just trying to figure them all out.’
‘Yeah,’ I muttered. ‘That would be fun.’
She shuffled her papers – mostly drawings of buildings and a bunch of
handwritten notes. I knew she wanted to be an architect some day, but I’d
learned the hard way not to ask what she was working on. She’d start talking
about angles and load-bearing joints until my eyes glazed over.
‘You know …’ She brushed her hair behind her ear, like she does when she’s
nervous. ‘This whole thing with Beckendorf and Silena. It kind of makes you
think. About … what’s important. About losing people who are important.’
I nodded. My brain started seizing on little random details, like the fact that
she was still wearing those silver owl earrings from her dad, who was this
brainiac military history professor in San Francisco.
‘Um, yeah,’ I stammered. ‘Like … is everything cool with your family?’
Okay, really stupid question but, hey, I was nervous.
Annabeth looked disappointed, but she nodded.
‘My dad wanted to take me to Greece this summer,’ she said wistfully. ‘I’ve
always wanted to see –’
‘The Parthenon,’ I remembered.
She managed a smile. ‘Yeah.’
‘That’s okay. There’ll be other summers, right?’
As soon as I said it, I realized it was a bone-headed comment. I was facing the
‘end of my days’. Within a week, Olympus might fall. If the Age of the Gods
really did end, the world as we knew it would dissolve into chaos. Demigods
would be hunted to extinction. There would be no more summers for us.
Annabeth stared at her inspection scroll. ‘Three out of five,’she muttered, ‘for
a sloppy head counsellor. Come on. Let’s finish your reports and get back to
Chiron.’
On the way to the Big House, we read the last report, which was handwritten
on a maple leaf from a satyr in Canada. If possible, the note made me feel even
worse.
‘Dear Grover,’ I read aloud. ‘Woods outside Toronto attacked by giant evil
badger. Tried to do as you suggested and summon power of Pan. No effect. Many
naiads’ trees destroyed. Retreating to Ottawa. Please advise. Where are you? –
Gleeson Hedge, protector.’
Annabeth grimaced. ‘You haven’t heard anything from him? Even with your
empathy link?’
I shook my head dejectedly.
Ever since last summer when the god Pan died, our friend Grover had been
drifting further and further away. The Council of Cloven Elders treated him like
an outcast, but Grover still travelled all over the East Coast, trying to spread the
word about Pan and convince nature spirits to protect their own little bits of the
wild. He’d only come back to camp a few times to see his girlfriend Juniper.
Last I’d heard he was in Central Park, organizing the dryads, but nobody had
seen or heard from him in two months. We’d tried to send Iris-messages. They
never got through. I had an empathy link with Grover, so I hoped I would know
if anything bad happened to him. Grover had told me one time that if he died, the
empathy link might kill me too. But I wasn’t sure if that was still true or not.
I wondered if he was still in Manhattan. Then I thought about my dream of
Rachel’s sketch – dark clouds closing on the city, an army gathered around the
Empire State Building.
‘Annabeth.’ I stopped her by the tetherball court. I knew I was asking for
trouble, but I didn’t know who else to trust. Plus I’d always depended on
Annabeth for advice. ‘Listen, I had this dream about, um, Rachel …’
I told her the whole thing, even the weird picture of Luke as a child.
For a while, she didn’t say anything. Then she rolled up her inspection scroll
so tight she ripped it. ‘What do you want me to say?’
‘I’m not sure. You’re the best strategist I know. If you were Kronos planning
this war, what would you do next?’
‘I’d use Typhon as a distraction. Then I’d hit Olympus directly, while the gods
were in the west.’
‘Just like in Rachel’s picture.’
‘Percy,’she said, her voice tight, ‘Rachel is just a mortal.’
‘But what if her dream is true? Those other Titans – they said Olympus would
be destroyed in a matter of days. They said they had plenty of other challenges.
And what’s with that picture of Luke as a kid –’
‘We’ll just have to be ready.’
‘How?’ I said. ‘Look at our camp. We can’t even stop fighting each other. And
I’m supposed to get my stupid soul reaped.’
She threw down her scroll. ‘I knew we shouldn’t have shown you the
prophecy.’ Her voice was angry and hurt. ‘All it did was scare you. You run
away from things when you’re scared.’
I stared at her, completely stunned. ‘Me? Run away?’
She got right in my face. ‘Yes, you. You’re a coward, Percy Jackson!’
We were nose to nose. Her eyes were red, and I suddenly realized that when
she called me a coward maybe she wasn’t talking about the prophecy.
‘If you don’t like our chances,’ she said, ‘maybe you should go on that
vacation with Rachel.’
‘Annabeth –’
‘If you don’t like our company.’
‘That’s not fair!’
She pushed past me and stormed towards the strawberry fields. She hit the
tetherball as she passed and sent it spinning angrily around the pole.
I’d like to say my day got better from there. Of course, it didn’t.
That afternoon we had an assembly at the campfire to burn Beckendorf’s
burial shroud and say our goodbyes. Even the Ares and Apollo cabins called a
temporary truce to attend.
Beckendorf’s shroud was made out of metal links like chainmail. I didn’t see
how it would burn, but the Fates must’ve been helping out. The metal melted in
the fire and turned to golden smoke that rose into the sky. The campfire flames
always reflected the campers’ moods, and today they burned black.
I hoped Beckendorf’s spirit would end up in Elysium. Maybe he’d even
choose to be reborn and try for Elysium in three different lifetimes so he could
reach the Isles of the Blest, which was like the Underworld’s ultimate party
headquarters. If anyone deserved it, Beckendorf did.
Annabeth left without a word to me. Most of the other campers drifted off to
their afternoon activities. I just stood there, staring at the dying fire. Silena sat
nearby crying while Clarisse and her boyfriend Chris Rodriguez tried to comfort
her.
Finally I got up the nerve to walk over. ‘Hey, Silena, I’m really sorry.’
She sniffled. Clarisse glared at me, but she always glares at everyone. Chris
would barely look at me. He’d been one of Luke’s men until Clarisse rescued
him from the Labyrinth last summer, and I guess he still felt guilty about it.
I cleared my throat. ‘Silena, you know Beckendorf carried your picture. He
looked at it right before we went into battle. You meant a lot to him. You made
the last year the best of his life.’
Silena sobbed.
‘Good work, Percy,’ Clarisse muttered.
‘No, it’s all right,’ Silena said. ‘Thank … thank you, Percy. I should go.’
‘You want company?’ Clarisse asked.
Silena shook her head and ran off.
‘She’s stronger than she looks,’ Clarisse muttered, almost to herself. ‘She’ll
survive.’
‘You could help with that,’ I suggested. ‘You could honour Beckendorf’s
memory by fighting with us.’
Clarisse went for her knife, but it wasn’t there any more. She’d thrown it on
the ping-pong table in the Big House.
‘Not my problem,’she growled. ‘My cabin doesn’t get honour – I don’t fight.’
I noticed she wasn’t speaking in rhymes. Maybe she hadn’t been around when
her cabinmates got cursed, or maybe she had a way of breaking the spell. With a
chill, I wondered if Clarisse could be Kronos’s spy at camp. Was that why she
was keeping her cabin out of the fight? But, as much as I disliked Clarisse,
spying for Titans didn’t seem like her style.
‘All right,’ I told her. ‘I didn’t want to bring this up, but you owe me one.
You’d be rotting in a Cyclops’s cave in the Sea of Monsters if it weren’t for me.’
She clenched her jaw. ‘Any other favour, Percy. Not this. The Ares cabin has
been dissed too many times. And don’t think I don’t know what people say about
me behind my back.’
I wanted to say, Well, it’s true. But I bit my tongue.
‘So what – you’re just going to let Kronos crush us?’ I asked.
‘If you want my help so much, tell Apollo to give us the chariot.’
‘You’re such a big baby.’
She charged me but Chris got between us. ‘Whoa, guys,’ he said. ‘Clarisse,
you know, maybe he’s got a point.’
She sneered at him. ‘Not you too!’
She trudged off with Chris at her heels. ‘Hey, wait! I just meant – Clarisse,
wait!’
I watched the last sparks from Beckendorf’s fire curl into the afternoon sky.
Then I headed towards the sword-fighting arena. I needed a break, and I wanted
to see an old friend.