CHAPTER 14: I Have A Dam Problem
At the edge of the dump, we found a tow truck so old it might’ve been thrown
away itself. But the engine started, and it had a full tank of fuel, so we decided to
borrow it.
Thalia drove. She didn’t seem as stunned as Zoë or Grover or me.
‘The skeletons are still out there,’she reminded us. ‘We need to keep moving.’
She navigated us through the desert, under clear blue skies, the sand so bright
it hurt to look at it. Zoë sat up front with Thalia. Grover and I sat in the back,
leaning against the tow winch. The air was cool and dry, but the nice weather
just seemed like an insult after losing Bianca.
My hand closed around the little figurine that had cost Bianca her life. I still
couldn’t even tell what god it was supposed to be. Nico would know.
Oh, gods… what was I going to tell Nico?
I wanted to believe that Bianca was still alive somewhere. But I had a bad
feeling that she was gone for good.
‘It should’ve been me,’ I said. ‘I should’ve gone into the giant.’
‘Don’t say that!’ Grover panicked. ‘It’s bad enough Annabeth is gone, and
now Bianca. Do you think I could stand it if…’ He sniffled. ‘Do you think
anybody else would be my best friend?’
‘Ah, Grover…’
He wiped under his eyes with an oily cloth that left his face grimy like he had
war paint on. ‘I’m… I’m okay.’
But he wasn’t okay. Ever since the encounter in New Mexico – whatever had
happened when that wild wind blew through – he seemed really fragile, even
more emotional than usual. I was afraid to talk to him about it, because he might
start bawling.
At least there’s one good thing about having a friend who gets freaked out
more than you do. I realized I couldn’t stay depressed. I had to set aside thinking
about Bianca and keep us going forward, the way Thalia was doing. I wondered
what she and Zoë were talking about in the front of the truck.
The tow truck ran out of fuel at the edge of a river canyon. That was just as well,
because the road dead-ended.
Thalia got out and slammed the door. Immediately, one of the tyres blew.
‘Great. What now?’
I scanned the horizon. There wasn’t much to see. Desert in all directions,
occasional clumps of barren mountains plopped here and there. The canyon was
the only thing interesting. The river itself wasn’t very big, maybe fifty metres
across, green water with a few rapids, but it carved a huge scar out of the desert.
The rock cliffs dropped away below us.
‘There’s a path,’ Grover said. ‘We could get to the river.’
I tried to see what he was talking about, and finally noticed a tiny ledge
winding down the cliff face. ‘That’s a goat path,’ I said.
‘So?’ he asked.
‘The rest of us aren’t goats.’
‘We can make it,’ Grover said. ‘I think.’
I thought about that. I’d done cliffs before, but I didn’t like them. Then I
looked over at Thalia and saw how pale she’d got. Her problem with heights…
she’d never be able to do it.
‘No,’ I said. ‘I, uh, think we should go further upstream.’
Grover said, ‘But –’
‘Come on,’ I said. ‘A walk won’t hurt us.’
I glanced at Thalia. Her eyes said a quick Thank you.
We followed the river for about half a mile before coming to an easier slope
that led down to the water. On the shore was a canoe rental operation that was
closed for the season, but I left a stack of golden drachma on the counter and a
note saying I.O.U. two canoes.
‘We need to go upstream,’ Zoë said. It was the first time I’d heard her speak
since the junkyard, and I was worried about how bad she sounded, like
somebody with the flu.
‘The rapids are too swift.’
‘Leave that to me,’ I said. We put the canoes in the water.
Thalia pulled me aside as we were getting the oars. ‘Thanks for back there.’
‘Don’t mention it.’
‘Can you really…’ She nodded to the rapids. ‘You know.’
‘I think so. Usually I’m good with water.’
‘Would you take Zoë?’she asked. ‘I think, ah, maybe you can talk to her.’
‘She’s not going to like that.’
‘Please? I don’t know if I can stand being in the same boat with her. She’s…
she’s starting to worry me.’
It was about the last thing I wanted to do, but I nodded.
Thalia’s shoulders relaxed. ‘I owe you one.’
‘Two.’
‘One and a half,’ Thalia said.
She smiled and, for a second, I remembered that I actually liked her when she
wasn’t yelling at me. She turned and helped Grover get their canoe into the
water.
As it turned out, I didn’t even need to control the currents. As soon as we got
in the river, I looked over the edge of the boat and found a couple of naiads
staring at me.
They looked like regular teenage girls, the kind you’d see in any mall, except
for the fact that they were underwater.
Hey, I said.
They made a bubbling sound that may have been giggling. I wasn’t sure. I had
a hard time understanding naiads.
We’re heading upstream, I told them. Do you think you could –
Before I could even finish, the naiads each chose a canoe and began pushing
us up the river. We started so fast Grover fell into his canoe with his hooves
sticking up in the air.
‘I hate naiads,’ Zoë grumbled.
A stream of water squirted up from the back of the boat and hit Zoë in the
face.
‘She-devils!’ Zoë went for her bow.
‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘They’re just playing.’
‘Cursed water spirits. They’ve never forgiven me.’
‘Forgiven you for what?’
She slung her bow back over her shoulder. ‘It was a long time ago. Never
mind.’
We sped up the river, the cliffs looming up on either side of us.
‘What happened to Bianca wasn’t your fault,’ I told her. ‘It was my fault. I let
her go.’
I figured this would give Zoë an excuse to start yelling at me. At least that
might shake her out of feeling depressed.
Instead, her shoulders slumped. ‘No, Percy. I pushed her into going on the
quest. I was too anxious. She was a powerful half-blood. She had a kind heart, as
well. I… I thought she would be the next lieutenant.’
‘But you’re the lieutenant.’
She gripped the strap of her quiver. She looked more tired than I’d ever seen
her. ‘Nothing can last forever, Percy. Over two thousand years I have led the
Hunt, and my wisdom has not improved. Now Artemis herself is in danger.’
‘Look, you can’t blame yourself for that.’
‘If I had insisted on going with her –’
‘You think you could’ve fought something powerful enough to kidnap
Artemis? There’s nothing you could have done.’
Zoë didn’t answer.
The cliffs along the river were getting taller. Long shadows fell across the
water, making it a lot colder, even though the day was bright.
Without thinking about it, I took Riptide out of my pocket. Zoë looked at the
pen, and her expression was pained.
‘You made this,’ I said.
‘Who told thee?’
‘I had a dream about it.’
She studied me. I was sure she was going to call me crazy, but she just sighed.
‘It was a gift. And a mistake.’
‘Who was the hero?’ I asked.
Zoë shook her head. ‘Do not make me say his name. I swore never to speak it
again.’
‘You act like I should know him.’
‘I am sure you do, hero. Don’t all you boys want to be just like him?’
Her voice was so bitter, I decided not to ask what she meant. I looked down at
Riptide and, for the first time, I wondered if it was cursed.
‘Your mother was a water goddess?’ I asked.
‘Yes, Pleoine. She had five daughters. My sisters and I. The Hesperides.’
‘Those were the girls who lived in a garden at the edge of the West. With the
golden apple tree, and a dragon guarding it.’
‘Yes,’ Zoë said wistfully. ‘Ladon.’
‘But weren’t there only four sisters?’
‘There are now. I was exiled. Forgotten. Blotted out as if I never existed.’
‘Why?’
Zoë pointed to my pen. ‘Because I betrayed my family and helped a hero. You
won’t find that in the legend either. He never spoke of me. After his direct
assault on Ladon failed, I gave him the idea of how to steal the apples, how to
trick my father, but he took all the credit.’
‘But –’
Gurgle, gurgle, the naiad spoke in my mind. The canoe was slowing down.
I looked ahead, and I saw why.
This was as far as they could take us. The river was blocked. A dam the size
of a football stadium stood in our path.
‘Hoover Dam,’ Thalia said. ‘It’s huge.’
We stood at the river’s edge, looking up at a curve of concrete that loomed
between the cliffs. People were walking along the top of the dam. They were so
tiny they looked like fleas.
The naiads had left with a lot of grumbling – not in words I could understand,
but it was obvious they hated this dam blocking up their nice river. Our canoes
floated back downstream, swirling in the wake from the dam’s discharge vents.
‘Over two hundred metres tall,’ I said. ‘Built in the 1930s.’
‘Five million cubic acres of water,’ Thalia said.
Grover sighed. ‘Largest construction project in the United States.’
Zoë stared at us. ‘How do you know all that?’
‘Annabeth,’ I said. ‘She liked architecture.’
‘She was nuts about monuments,’ Thalia said.
‘Spouted facts all the time.’ Grover sniffled. ‘So annoying.’
‘I wish she were here,’ I said.
The others nodded. Zoë was still looking at us strangely, but I didn’t care. It
seemed like cruel fate that we’d come to Hoover Dam, one of Annabeth’s
personal favourites, and she wasn’t here to see it.
‘We should go up there,’ I said. ‘For her sake. Just to say we’ve been.’
‘You are mad,’ Zoë decided. ‘But that’s where the road is.’ She pointed to a
huge parking garage next to the top of the dam. ‘And so sightseeing it is.’
We had to walk for almost an hour before we found a path that led up to the
road. It came up on the east side of the river. Then we straggled back towards the
dam. It was cold and windy on top. On one side, a big lake spread out, ringed by
barren desert mountains. On the other side, the dam dropped away like the
world’s most dangerous skateboard ramp, down to the river more than two
hundred metres below, and water that churned from the dam’s vents.
Thalia walked in the middle of the road, far away from the edges. Grover kept
sniffing the wind and looking nervous. He didn’t say anything, but I knew he
smelled monsters.
‘How close are they?’ I asked him.
He shook his head. ‘Maybe not close. The wind on the dam, the desert all
around us… the scent can probably carry for miles. But it’s coming from several
directions. I don’t like that.’
I didn’t either. It was already Wednesday, only two days until winter solstice,
and we still had a long way to go. We didn’t need any more monsters.
‘There’s a snack bar in the visitor centre,’ Thalia said.
‘You’ve been here before?’ I asked.
‘Once. To see the guardians.’ She pointed to the far end of the dam. Carved
into the side of the cliff was a little plaza with two big bronze statues. They
looked kind of like Oscar statues with wings.
‘They were dedicated to Zeus when the dam was built,’ Thalia said. ‘A gift
from Athena.’
Tourists were clustered all around them. They seemed to be looking at the
statues’ feet.
‘What are they doing?’ I asked.
‘Rubbing the toes,’ Thalia said. ‘They think it’s good luck.’
‘Why?’
She shook her head. ‘Mortals get crazy ideas. They don’t know the statues are
sacred to Zeus, but they know there’s something special about them.’
‘When you were here last, did they talk to you or anything?’
Thalia’s expression darkened. I could tell that she’d come here before hoping
for exactly that – some kind of sign from her dad. Some connection. ‘No. They
don’t do anything. They’re just big metal statues.’
I thought about the last big metal statue we’d run into. That hadn’t gone so
well. But I decided not to bring it up.
‘Let us find the dam snack bar,’ Zoë said. ‘We should eat while we can.’
Grover cracked a smile. ‘The dam snack bar?’
Zoë blinked. ‘Yes. What is funny?’
‘Nothing,’ Grover said, trying to keep a straight face. ‘I could use some dam
French fries.’
Even Thalia smiled at that. ‘And I need to use the dam restroom.’
Maybe it was the fact that we were so tired and strung out emotionally, but I
started cracking up, and Thalia and Grover joined in, while Zoë just looked at us.
‘I do not understand.’
‘I want to use the dam water fountain,’ Grover said.
‘And…’ Thalia tried to catch her breath. ‘I want to buy a dam T-shirt.’
I cracked up, and I probably would’ve kept laughing all day, but then I heard a
noise:
‘Moooo.’
The smile melted off my face. I wondered if the noise was just in my head, but
Grover had stopped laughing, too. He was looking around, confused. ‘Did I just
hear a cow?’
‘A dam cow?’ Thalia laughed.
‘No,’ Grover said. ‘I’m serious.’
Zoë listened. ‘I hear nothing.’
Thalia was looking at me. ‘Percy, are you okay?’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘You guys go ahead. I’ll be right in.’
‘What’s wrong?’ Grover asked.
‘Nothing,’ I said. ‘I… I just need a minute. To think.’
They hesitated, but I guess I must’ve looked upset, because they finally went
into the visitor centre without me. As soon as they were gone, I jogged to the
north edge of the dam and looked over.
‘Moo.’
She was about ten metres below in the lake, but I could see her clearly: my
friend from Long Island Sound, Bessie the cow serpent.
I looked around. There were groups of kids running along the dam. A lot of
senior citizens. Some families. But nobody seemed to be paying Bessie any
attention yet.
‘What are you doing here?’ I asked her.
‘Moo!’
Her voice was urgent, like she was trying to warn me of something.
‘How did you get here?’ I asked. We were thousands of miles from Long
Island, hundreds of miles inland. There was no way she could’ve swum all the
way here. And yet, here she was.
Bessie swam in a circle and butted her head against the side of the dam.
‘Moo!’
She wanted me to come with her. She was telling me to hurry.
‘I can’t,’ I told her. ‘My friends are inside.’
She looked at me with her sad brown eyes. Then she gave one more urgent
‘Moo!,’ did a flip and disappeared into the water.
I hesitated. Something was wrong. She was trying to tell me that. I considered
jumping over the side and following her, but then I tensed. The hairs on my arms
bristled. I looked down the dam road to the east and I saw two men walking
slowly towards me. They wore grey camouflage outfits that flickered over
skeletal bodies.
They passed through a group of kids and pushed them aside. A kid yelled,
‘Hey!’ One of the warriors turned, his face changing momentarily into a skull.
‘Ah!’ the kid yelled, and his whole group backed away.
I ran for the visitor centre.
I was almost at the stairs when I heard tyres squeal. On the west side of the
dam, a black van swerved to a stop in the middle of the road, nearly ploughing
into some old people.
The van doors opened and more skeleton warriors piled out. I was surrounded.
I bolted down the stairs and through the museum entrance. The security guard
at the metal-detector yelled, ‘Hey, kid!’ But I didn’t stop.
I ran through the exhibits and ducked behind a tour group. I looked for my
friends, but I couldn’t see them anywhere. Where was the dam snack bar?
‘Stop!’ The metal detector guy yelled.
There was no place to go but into an elevator with the tour group. I ducked
inside just as the door closed.
‘We’ll be going down two hundred and twenty-two metres,’ our tour guide
said cheerfully. She was a park ranger, with long black hair pulled back in a
ponytail and tinted glasses. I guess she hadn’t noticed that I was being chased.
‘Don’t worry, ladies and gentlemen, the elevator hardly ever breaks.’
‘Does this go to the snack bar?’ I asked her.
A few people behind me chuckled. The tour guide looked at me. Something
about her gaze made my skin tingle.
‘To the turbines, young man,’ the lady said. ‘Weren’t you listening to my
fascinating presentation upstairs?’
‘Oh, uh, sure. Is there another way out of the dam?’
‘It’s a dead end,’ a tourist behind me said. ‘For heaven’s sake. The only way
out is the other elevator.’
The doors opened.
‘Go right ahead, folks,’ the tour guide told us. ‘Another ranger is waiting for
you at the end of the corridor.’
I didn’t have much choice but to go out with the group.
‘And, young man,’ the tour guide called. I looked back. She’d taken off her
glasses. Her eyes were startlingly grey, like storm clouds. ‘There is always a way
out for those clever enough to find it.’
The doors closed with the tour guide still inside, leaving me alone.
Before I could think too much about the woman in the elevator, a ding came
from round the corner. The second elevator was opening, and I heard an
unmistakable sound – the clattering of skeleton teeth.
I ran after the tour group, through a tunnel carved out of solid rock. It seemed
to run forever. The walls were moist, and the air hummed with electricity and the
roar of water. I came out on a U-shaped balcony that overlooked this huge
warehouse area. Fifteen metres below, enormous turbines were running. It was a
big room, but I didn’t see any other exit, unless I wanted to jump into the
turbines and get churned up to make electricity. I didn’t.
Another tour guide was talking over the microphone, telling the tourists about
water supplies in Nevada. I prayed that Thalia, Zoë and Grover were okay. They
might already be captured, or eating at the snack bar, completely unaware that
we were being surrounded. And stupid me: I had trapped myself in a hole a
couple of hundred metres below the surface.
I worked my way around the crowd, trying not to be too obvious about it.
There was a hallway at the other side of the balcony – maybe some place I could
hide. I kept my hand on Riptide, ready to strike.
By the time I got to the opposite side of the balcony, my nerves were shot. I
backed into the little hallway and watched the tunnel I’d come from.
Then right behind me I heard a sharp Chhh! like the voice of a skeleton.
Without thinking, I uncapped Riptide and spun, slashing with my sword.
The girl I’d just tried to slice in half yelped and dropped her Kleenex.
‘Oh my god!’ she shouted. ‘Do you always kill people when they blow their
nose?’
The first thing that went through my head was that the sword hadn’t hurt her.
It had passed clean through her body, harmlessly. ‘You’re mortal!’
She looked at me in disbelief. ‘What’s that supposed to mean? Of course I’m
mortal! How did you get that sword past security?’
‘I didn’t – Wait, you can see it’s a sword?’
The girl rolled her eyes, which were green like mine. She had frizzy reddishbrown hair. Her nose was also red, like she had a cold. She wore a big maroon
Harvard sweatshirt and jeans that were covered with marker stains and little
holes, like she spent her free time poking them with a fork.
‘Well, it’s either a sword or the biggest toothpick in the world,’ she said. ‘And
why didn’t it hurt me? I mean, not that I’m complaining. Who are you? And,
whoa, what is that you’re wearing? Is that made of lion fur?’
She asked so many questions so fast, it was like she was throwing rocks at me.
I couldn’t think of what to say. I looked at my sleeves to see if the Nemean Lion
pelt had somehow changed back to fur, but it still looked like a brown winter
coat to me.
I knew the skeleton warriors were still chasing me. I had no time to waste. But
I just stared at the redheaded girl. Then I remembered what Thalia had done at
Westover Hall to fool the teachers. Maybe I could manipulate the Mist.
I concentrated hard and snapped my fingers. ‘You don’t see a sword,’ I told
the girl. ‘It’s just a ballpoint pen.’
She blinked. ‘Um… no. It’s a sword, weirdo.’
‘Who are you?’ I demanded.
She huffed indignantly. ‘Rachel Elizabeth Dare. Now, are you going to answer
my questions or should I scream for security?’
‘No!’ I said. ‘I mean, I’m kind of in a hurry. I’m in trouble.’
‘In a hurry or in trouble?’
‘Um, sort of both.’
She looked over my shoulder and her eyes widened. ‘Bathroom!’
‘What?’
‘Bathroom! Behind me! Now!’
I don’t know why, but I listened to her. I slipped inside the boy’s bathroom
and left Rachel Elizabeth Dare standing outside. Later, that seemed cowardly to
me. I’m also pretty sure it saved my life.
I heard the clattering, hissing sounds of skeletons as they came closer.
My grip tightened on Riptide. What was I thinking? I’d left a mortal girl out
there to die. I was preparing to burst out and fight when Rachel Elizabeth Dare
started talking in that rapid-fire machine gun way of hers.
‘Oh my god! Did you see that kid? It’s about time you got here. He tried to
kill me! He had a sword, for god’s sake. You security guys let a sword-swinging
lunatic inside a national landmark? I mean, jeez! He ran that way towards those
turbine thingies. I think he went over the side or something. Maybe he fell.’
The skeletons clattered excitedly. I heard them moving off.
Rachel opened the door. ‘All clear. But you’d better hurry.’
She looked shaken. Her face was grey and sweaty.
I peeked round the corner. Three skeleton warriors were running towards the
other end of the balcony. The way to the elevator was clear for a few seconds.
‘I owe you one, Rachel Elizabeth Dare.’
‘What are those things?’she asked. ‘They looked like –’
‘Skeletons?’
She nodded uneasily.
‘Do yourself a favour,’ I said. ‘Forget it. Forget you ever saw me.’
‘Forget you tried to kill me?’
‘Yeah. That, too.’
‘But who are you?’
‘Percy –’ I started to say. Then the skeletons turned round. ‘Gotta go!’
‘What kind of name is Percy Gotta-go?’
I bolted for the exit.
The café was packed with kids enjoying the best part of the tour – the dam
lunch. Thalia, Zoë and Grover were just sitting down with their food.
‘We need to leave,’ I gasped. ‘Now!’
‘But we just got our burritos!’ Thalia said.
Zoë stood up, muttering an Ancient Greek curse. ‘He’s right! Look.’
The café windows wrapped all the way round the observation floor, which
gave us a beautiful panoramic view of the skeletal army that had come to kill us.
I counted two on the east side of the dam road, blocking the way to Arizona.
Three more on the west side, guarding Nevada. All of them were armed with
batons and pistols.
But our immediate problem was a lot closer. The three skeleton warriors
who’d been chasing me in the turbine room now appeared on the stairs. They
saw me from across the cafeteria and clattered their teeth.
‘Elevator!’ Grover said. We bolted in that direction, but the doors opened with
a pleasant ding, and three more warriors stepped out. Every warrior was
accounted for, minus the one Bianca had blasted to flames in New Mexico. We
were completely surrounded.
Then Grover had a brilliant, totally Grover-like idea.
‘Burrito fight!’ he yelled, and flung his Guacamole Grande at the nearest
skeleton.
Now, if you have never been hit by a flying burrito, count yourself lucky. In
terms of deadly projectiles, it’s right up there with grenades and cannonballs.
Grover’s lunch hit the skeleton and knocked his skull clean off his shoulders.
I’m not sure what the other kids in the café saw, but they went crazy and started
throwing their burritos and baskets of chips and sodas at each other, shrieking
and screaming.
The skeletons tried to aim their guns, but it was hopeless. Bodies and food and
drinks were flying everywhere.
In the chaos, Thalia and I tackled the other two skeletons on the stairs and sent
them flying into the condiment table. Then we all raced downstairs, Guacamole
Grandes whizzing past our heads.
‘What now?’ Grover asked as we burst outside.
I didn’t have an answer. The warriors on the road were closing in from either
direction. We ran across the street to the plaza with the winged bronze statues,
but that just put our backs to the mountain.
The skeletons moved forward, forming a crescent round us. Their brethren
from the café were running up to join them. One was still putting its skull back
on its shoulders. Another was covered in ketchup and mustard. Two more had
burritos lodged in their ribcages. They didn’t look happy about it. They drew
batons and advanced.
‘Four against eleven,’ Zoë muttered. ‘And they cannot die.’
‘It’s been nice adventuring with you guys,’ Grover said, his voice trembling.
Something shiny caught the corner of my eye. I glanced behind me at the
statues’ feet. ‘Whoa,’ I said. ‘Their toes really are bright.’
‘Percy!’ Thalia said. ‘This isn’t the time.’
But I couldn’t help staring at the two giant bronze guys with tall bladed wings
like letter openers. They were weathered brown except for their toes, which
shone like new pennies from all the times people had rubbed them for good luck.
Good luck. The blessing of Zeus.
I thought about the tour guide in the elevator. Her grey eyes and her smile.
What had she said? There is always a way for those clever enough to find it.
‘Thalia,’ I said. ‘Pray to your dad.’
She glared at me. ‘He never answers.’
‘Just this once,’ I pleaded. ‘Ask for help. I think… I think the statues can give
us some luck.’
Six skeletons raised their guns. The other five came forward with batons.
Fifteen metres away. Ten metres.
‘Do it!’ I yelled.
‘No!’ Thalia said. ‘He won’t answer me.’
‘This time is different!’
‘Who says?’
I hesitated. ‘Athena, I think.’
Thalia scowled like she was sure I’d gone crazy.
‘Try it,’ Grover pleaded.
Thalia closed her eyes. Her lips moved in a silent prayer. I put in my own
prayer to Annabeth’s mom, hoping I was right that it had been her in that
elevator – that she was trying to help us save her daughter.
And nothing happened.
The skeletons closed in. I raised Riptide to defend myself. Thalia held up her
shield. Zoë pushed Grover behind her and aimed an arrow at a skeleton’s head.
A shadow fell over me. I thought maybe it was the shadow of death. Then I
realized it was the shadow of an enormous wing. The skeletons looked up too
late. A flash of bronze, and all five of the baton-wielders were swept aside.
The other skeletons opened fire. I raised my lion coat for protection, but I
didn’t need it. The bronze angels stepped in front of us and folded their wings
like shields. Bullets pinged off them like rain off a corrugated roof. Both angels
slashed outwards, and the skeletons went flying across the road.
‘Man, it feels good to stand up!’ the first angel said. His voice sounded tinny
and rusty, like he hadn’t had a drink since he’d been built.
‘Will ya look at my toes?’ the other said. ‘Holy Zeus, what were those tourists
thinking?’
As stunned as I was by the angels, I was more concerned with the skeletons. A
few of them were getting up again, reassembling, bony hands groping for their
weapons.
‘Trouble!’ I said.
‘Get us out of here!’ Thalia yelled.
Both angels looked down at her. ‘Zeus’s kid?’
‘Yes!’
‘Could I get a please, Miss Zeus’s Kid?’ an angel asked.
‘Please!’
The angels looked at each other and shrugged.
‘Could use a stretch,’ one decided.
And the next thing I knew, one of them grabbed Thalia and me, the other
grabbed Zoë and Grover, and we flew straight up, over the dam and the river, the
skeleton warriors shrinking to tiny specks below us and the sound of gunfire
echoing off the sides of the mountains.