CHAPTER 2: I Play Dodgeball with Cannibals
My day started normal. Or as normal as it ever gets at Meriwether College Prep.
See, it’s this ‘progressive’ school in downtown Manhattan, which means we
sit on beanbag chairs instead of at desks, and we don’t get grades and the
teachers wear jeans and rock concert T-shirts to work.
That’s all cool with me. I mean, I’m ADHD and dyslexic, like most halfbloods, so I’d never done that great in regular schools even before they kicked
me out. The only bad thing about Meriwether was that the teachers always
looked on the bright side of things, and the kids weren’t always … well, bright.
Take my first class today: English. The whole middle school had read this
book called Lord of the Flies, where all these kids get marooned on an island and
go psycho. So for our final exam, our teachers sent us into the yard to spend an
hour with no adult supervision to see what would happen. What happened was a
massive wedgie contest between the seventh and eighth graders, two pebble
fights and a full-tackle basketball game. The school bully, Matt Sloan, led most
of those activities.
Sloan wasn’t big or strong, but he acted like he was. He had eyes like a pit
bull, and shaggy black hair, and he always dressed in expensive but sloppy
clothes, like he wanted everybody to see how little he cared about his family’s
money. One of his front teeth was chipped from the time he’d taken his daddy’s
Porsche for a joyride and run into a PLEASE SLOW DOWN FOR CHILDREN
sign.
Anyway, Sloan was giving everybody wedgies until he made the mistake of
trying it on my friend Tyson.
Tyson was the only homeless kid at Meriwether College Prep. As near as my
mom and I could figure, he’d been abandoned by his parents when he was very
young, probably because he was so … different. He was two metres tall and built
like the Abominable Snowman, but he cried a lot and was scared of just about
everything, including his own reflection. His face was kind of misshapen and
brutal-looking. I couldn’t tell you what colour his eyes were, because I could
never make myself look higher than his crooked teeth. His voice was deep, but
he talked funny, like a much younger kid – I guess because he’d never gone to
school before coming to Meriwether. He wore tattered jeans, grimy size-twenty
sneakers and a plaid flannel shirt with holes in it. He smelled like a New York
City alleyway, because that’s where he lived, in a cardboard refrigerator box off
72nd Street.
Meriwether Prep had adopted him as a community service project so all the
students could feel good about themselves. Unfortunately, most of them couldn’t
stand Tyson. Once they discovered he was a big softie, despite his massive
strength and his scary looks, they made themselves feel good by picking on him.
I was pretty much his only friend, which meant he was my only friend.
My mom had complained to the school a million times that they weren’t doing
enough to help him. She’d called social services, but nothing ever seemed to
happen. The social workers claimed Tyson didn’t exist. They swore up and down
that they’d visited the alley we described and couldn’t find him, though how you
miss a giant kid living in a refrigerator box, I don’t know.
Anyway, Matt Sloan snuck up behind him and tried to give him a wedgie, and
Tyson panicked. He swatted Sloan away a little too hard. Sloan flew five metres
and got tangled in the little kids’ tyre swing.
‘You freak!’ Sloan yelled. ‘Why don’t you go back to your cardboard box!’
Tyson started sobbing. He sat down on the jungle gym so hard he bent the bar,
and buried his head in his hands.
‘Take it back, Sloan!’ I shouted.
Sloan just sneered at me. ‘Why do you even bother, Jackson? You might have
friends if you weren’t always sticking up for that freak.’
I balled my fists. I hoped my face wasn’t as red as it felt. ‘He’s not a freak.
He’s just…’
I tried to think of the right thing to say, but Sloan wasn’t listening. He and his
big ugly friends were too busy laughing. I wondered if it were my imagination,
or if Sloan had more goons hanging around him than usual. I was used to seeing
him with two or three, but today he had like, half a dozen more, and I was pretty
sure I’d never seen them before.
‘Just wait till PE, Jackson,’ Sloan called. ‘You are so dead.’
When first period ended, our English teacher Mr de Milo came outside to
inspect the carnage. He pronounced that we’d understood Lord of the Flies
perfectly. We all passed his course, and we should never, never grow up to be
violent people. Matt Sloan nodded earnestly, then gave me a chip-toothed grin.
I had to promise to buy Tyson an extra peanut butter sandwich at lunch to get
him to stop sobbing.
‘I … I am a freak?’ he asked me.
‘No,’ I promised, gritting my teeth. ‘Matt Sloan is the freak.’
Tyson sniffled. ‘You are a good friend. Miss you next year if … if I can’t…’
His voice trembled. I realized he didn’t know if he’d be invited back next year
for the community service project. I wondered if the headmaster had even
bothered talking to him about it.
‘Don’t worry, big guy,’ I managed. ‘Everything’s going to be fine.’
Tyson gave me such a grateful look I felt like a big liar. How could I promise
a kid like him that anything would be fine?
Our next exam was science. Mrs Tesla told us that we had to mix chemicals until
we succeeded in making something explode. Tyson was my lab partner. His
hands were way too big for the tiny vials we were supposed to use. He
accidentally knocked a tray of chemicals off the counter and made an orange
mushroom cloud in the trashcan.
After Mrs Tesla evacuated the lab and called the hazardous waste removal
squad, she praised Tyson and me for being natural chemists. We were the first
ones who’d ever aced her exam in under thirty seconds.
I was glad the morning went fast, because it kept me from thinking too much
about my problems. I couldn’t stand the idea that something might be wrong at
camp. Even worse, I couldn’t shake the memory of my bad dream. I had a
terrible feeling that Grover was in danger.
In social studies, while we were drawing latitude/longitude maps, I opened my
notebook and stared at the photo inside – my friend Annabeth on vacation in
Washington, DC. She was wearing jeans and a denim jacket over her orange
Camp Half-Blood T-shirt. Her blonde hair was pulled back in a bandanna. She
was standing in front of the Lincoln Memorial with her arms crossed, looking
extremely pleased with herself, like she’d personally designed the place. See,
Annabeth wants to be an architect when she grows up, so she’s always visiting
famous monuments and stuff. She’s weird that way. She’d e-mailed me the
picture after spring break, and every once in a while I’d look at it just to remind
myself she was real and Camp Half-Blood hadn’t just been my imagination.
I wished Annabeth were here. She’d know what to make of my dream. I’d
never admit it to her, but she was smarter than me, even if she was annoying
sometimes.
I was about to close my notebook when Matt Sloan reached over and ripped
the photo out of the rings.
‘Hey!’ I protested.
Sloan checked out the picture and his eyes got wide. ‘No way, Jackson. Who
is that? She is not your –’
‘Give it back!’ My ears felt hot.
Sloan handed the photo to his ugly buddies, who snickered and started ripping
it up to make spit wads. They were new kids who must’ve been visiting, because
they were all wearing those stupid HI! MY NAME IS: tags from the admissions
office. They must’ve had a weird sense of humour, too, because they’d all filled
in strange names like: MARROW SUCKER, SKULL EATER and JOE BOB.
No human beings had names like that.
‘These guys are moving here next year,’ Sloan bragged, like that was
supposed to scare me. ‘I bet they can pay the tuition, too, unlike your retard
friend.’
‘He’s not retarded.’ I had to try really, really hard not to punch Sloan in the
face.
‘You’re such a loser, Jackson. Good thing I’m gonna put you out of your
misery next period.’
His huge buddies chewed up my photo. I wanted to pulverize them, but I was
under strict orders from Chiron never to take my anger out on regular mortals,
no matter how obnoxious they were. I had to save my fighting for monsters.
Still, part of me thought, if Sloan only knew who I really was…
The bell rang.
As Tyson and I were leaving class, a girl’s voice whispered, ‘Percy!’
I looked around the locker area, but nobody was paying me any attention.
Like any girl at Meriwether would ever be caught dead calling my name.
Before I had time to consider whether or not I’d been imagining things, a
crowd of kids rushed for the gym, carrying Tyson and me along with them. It
was time for PE. Our coach had promised us a free-for-all dodgeball game, and
Matt Sloan had promised to kill me.
* * *
The gym uniform at Meriwether is sky-blue shorts and tie-dyed T-shirts.
Fortunately, we did most of our athletic stuff inside, so we didn’t have to jog
through Tribeca looking like a bunch of boot-camp hippie children.
I changed as quickly as I could in the locker room because I didn’t want to
deal with Sloan. I was about to leave when Tyson called, ‘Percy?’
He hadn’t changed yet. He was standing by the weight-room door, clutching
his gym clothes. ‘Will you … uh…’
‘Oh. Yeah.’ I tried not to sound aggravated about it. ‘Yeah, sure, man.’
Tyson ducked inside the weight room. I stood guard outside the door while he
changed. I felt kind of awkward doing this, but he asked me to most days. I think
it’s because he’s completely hairy and he’s got weird scars on his back that I’ve
never had the courage to ask him about.
Anyway, I’d learned the hard way that if people teased Tyson while he was
dressing, he’d get upset and start ripping the doors off lockers.
When we got into the gym, Coach Nunley was sitting at his little desk reading
Sports Illustrated. Nunley was about a million years old, with bifocals and no
teeth and a greasy wave of grey hair. He reminded me of the Oracle at Camp
Half-Blood – which was a shrivelled-up mummy – except Coach Nunley moved
a lot less and he never billowed green smoke. Well, at least not that I’d observed.
Matt Sloan said, ‘Coach, can I be captain?’
‘Eh?’ Coach Nunley looked up from his magazine. ‘Yeah,’ he mumbled. ‘Mmhmm.’
Sloan grinned and took charge of the picking. He made me the other team’s
captain, but it didn’t matter who I picked, because all the jocks and the popular
kids moved over to Sloan’s side. So did the big group of visitors.
On my side I had Tyson, Corey Bailer the computer geek, Raj Mandali the
calculus whiz, and a half-dozen other kids who always got harassed by Sloan
and his gang. Normally I would’ve been okay with just Tyson – he was worth
half a team all by himself – but the visitors on Sloan’s team were almost as tall
and strong-looking as Tyson, and there were six of them.
Matt Sloan spilled a cage full of balls in the middle of the gym.
‘Scared,’ Tyson mumbled. ‘Smell funny.’
I looked at him. ‘What smells funny?’ Because I didn’t figure he was talking
about himself.
‘Them.’ Tyson pointed at Sloan’s new friends. ‘Smell funny.’
The visitors were cracking their knuckles, eyeing us like it was slaughter time.
I couldn’t help wondering where they were from. Someplace where they fed kids
raw meat and beat them with sticks.
Sloan blew the coach’s whistle and the game began. Sloan’s team ran for the
centre line. On my side, Raj Mandali yelled something in Urdu, probably ‘I have
to go potty!’ and ran for the exit. Corey Bailer tried to crawl behind the wall mat
and hide. The rest of my team did their best to cower in fear and not look like
targets.
‘Tyson,’ I said. ‘Let’s g–’
A ball slammed into my gut. I sat down hard in the middle of the gym floor.
The other team exploded in laughter.
My eyesight was fuzzy. I felt like I’d just got the Heimlich manoeuvre from a
gorilla. I couldn’t believe anybody could throw that hard.
Tyson yelled, ‘Percy, duck!’
I rolled as another dodgeball whistled past my ear at the speed of sound.
Whooom!
It hit the wall mat, and Corey Bailer yelped.
‘Hey!’ I yelled at Sloan’s team. ‘You could kill somebody!’
The visitor named Joe Bob grinned at me evilly. Somehow, he looked a lot
bigger now … even taller than Tyson. His biceps bulged beneath his T-shirt. ‘I
hope so, Perseus Jackson! I hope so!’
The way he said my name sent a chill down my back. Nobody called me
Perseus except those who knew my true identity. Friends … and enemies.
What had Tyson said? They smell funny.
Monsters.
All around Matt Sloan, the visitors were growing in size. They were no longer
kids. They were two-and-a-half-metre-tall giants with wild eyes, pointy teeth and
hairy arms tattooed with snakes and hula women and Valentine hearts.
Matt Sloan dropped his ball. ‘Whoa! You’re not from Detroit! Who…’
The other kids on his team started screaming and backing towards the exit, but
the giant named Marrow Sucker threw a ball with deadly accuracy. It streaked
past Raj Mandali just as he was about to leave and hit the door, slamming it shut
like magic. Raj and some of the other kids banged on it desperately but it
wouldn’t budge.
‘Let them go!’ I yelled at the giants.
The one called Joe Bob growled at me. He had a tattoo on his biceps that said:
JB luvs Babycakes. ‘And lose our tasty morsels? No, Son of the Sea God. We
Laistrygonians aren’t just playing for your death. We want lunch!’
He waved his hand and a new batch of dodgeballs appeared on the centre line
– but these balls weren’t made of red rubber. They were bronze, the size of
cannon balls, perforated like Wiffle balls with fire bubbling out the holes. They
must’ve been searing hot, but the giants picked them up with their bare hands.
‘Coach!’ I yelled.
Nunley looked up sleepily, but if he saw anything abnormal about the
dodgeball game, he didn’t let on. That’s the problem with mortals. A magical
force called the Mist obscures the true appearance of monsters and gods from
their vision, so mortals tend to see only what they can understand. Maybe the
coach saw a few eighth graders pounding the younger kids like usual. Maybe the
other kids saw Matt Sloan’s thugs getting ready to toss Molotov cocktails
around. (It wouldn’t have been the first time.) At any rate, I was pretty sure
nobody else realized we were dealing with genuine man-eating bloodthirsty
monsters.
‘Yeah. Mm-hmm,’ Coach muttered. ‘Play nice.’
And he went back to his magazine.
The giant named Skull Eater threw his ball. I dived aside as the fiery bronze
comet sailed past my shoulder.
‘Corey!’ I screamed.
Tyson pulled him out from behind the exercise mat just as the ball exploded
against it, blasting the mat to smoking shreds.
‘Run!’ I told my teammates. ‘The other exit!’
They ran for the locker room, but with another wave of Joe Bob’s hand, that
door also slammed shut.
‘No one leaves unless you’re out!’ Joe Bob roared. ‘And you’re not out until
we eat you!’
He launched his own fireball. My teammates scattered as it blasted a crater in
the gym floor.
I reached for Riptide, which I always kept in my pocket, but then I realized I
was wearing gym shorts. I had no pockets. Riptide was tucked in my jeans inside
my gym locker. And the locker room door was sealed. I was completely
defenceless.
Another fireball came streaking towards me. Tyson pushed me out of the way,
but the explosion still blew me head over heels. I found myself sprawled on the
gym floor, dazed from smoke, my tie-dyed T-shirt peppered with sizzling holes.
Just across the centre line, two hungry giants were glaring down at me.
‘Flesh!’ they bellowed. ‘Hero flesh for lunch!’ They both took aim.
‘Percy needs help!’ Tyson yelled, and he jumped in front of me just as they
threw their balls.
‘Tyson!’ I screamed, but it was too late.
Both balls slammed into him … but no … he’d caught them. Somehow Tyson,
who was so clumsy he knocked over lab equipment and broke playground
structures on a regular basis, had caught two fiery metal balls speeding towards
him at a zillion miles an hour. He sent them hurtling back towards their surprised
owners, who screamed, ‘BAAAAAD!’ as the bronze spheres exploded against
their chests.
The giants disintegrated in twin columns of flame – a sure sign they were
monsters, all right. Monsters don’t die. They just dissipate into smoke and dust,
which saves heroes a lot of trouble cleaning up after a fight.
‘My brothers!’ Joe Bob the Cannibal wailed. He flexed his muscles and his
Babycakes tattoo rippled. ‘You will pay for their destruction!’
‘Tyson!’ I said. ‘Look out!’
Another comet hurtled towards us. Tyson just had time to swat it aside. It flew
straight over Coach Nunley’s head and landed in the stands with a huge KABOOM!
Kids were running around screaming, trying to avoid the sizzling craters in the
floor. Others were banging on the door, calling for help. Sloan himself stood
petrified in the middle of the court, watching in disbelief as balls of death flew
around him.
Coach Nunley still wasn’t seeing anything. He tapped his hearing aid like the
explosions were giving him interference, but he kept his eyes on his magazine.
Surely the whole school could hear the noise. The headmaster, the police,
somebody would come help us.
‘Victory will be ours!’ roared Joe Bob the Cannibal. ‘We will feast on your
bones!’
I wanted to tell him he was taking the dodgeball game way too seriously, but
before I could, he hefted another ball. The other three giants followed his lead.
I knew we were dead. Tyson couldn’t deflect all those balls at once. His hands
had to be seriously burned from blocking the first volley. Without my sword …
I had a crazy idea.
I ran towards the locker room.
‘Move!’ I told my teammates. ‘Away from the door.’
Explosions behind me. Tyson had batted two of the balls back towards their
owners and blasted them to ashes.
That left two giants still standing.
A third ball hurtled straight at me. I forced myself to wait – one Mississippi,
two Mississippi – then dived aside as the fiery sphere demolished the locker
room door.
Now, I figured that the built-up gas in most boys’ locker rooms was enough to
cause an explosion, so I wasn’t surprised when the flaming dodgeball ignited a
huge WHOOOOOOOM!
The wall blew apart. Locker doors, socks, athletic supports and other various
nasty personal belongings rained all over the gym.
I turned just in time to see Tyson punch Skull Eater in the face. The giant
crumpled. But the last giant, Joe Bob, had wisely held on to his own ball,
waiting for an opportunity. He threw just as Tyson was turning to face him.
‘No!’ I yelled.
The ball caught Tyson square in the chest. He slid the length of the court and
slammed into the back wall, which cracked and partially crumbled on top of
him, making a hole right onto Church Street. I didn’t see how Tyson could still
be alive, but he only looked dazed. The bronze ball was smoking at his feet.
Tyson tried to pick it up, but he fell back, stunned, into a pile of cinder blocks.
‘Well!’ Joe Bob gloated. ‘I’m the last one standing! I’ll have enough meat to
bring Babycakes a doggy bag!’
He picked up another ball and aimed it at Tyson.
‘Stop!’ I yelled. ‘It’s me you want!’
The giant grinned. ‘You wish to die first, young hero?’
I had to do something. Riptide had to be around here somewhere.
Then I spotted my jeans in a smoking heap of clothes right by the giant’s feet.
If I could only get there … I knew it was hopeless, but I charged.
The giant laughed. ‘My lunch approaches.’ He raised his arm to throw. I
braced myself to die.
Suddenly the giant’s body went rigid. His expression changed from gloating to
surprise. Right where his belly button should’ve been, his T-shirt ripped open
and he grew something like a horn – no, not a horn – the glowing tip of a blade.
The ball dropped out of his hand. The monster stared down at the knife that
had just run him through from behind.
He muttered, ‘Ow,’ and burst into a cloud of green flame, which I figured was
going to make Babycakes pretty upset.
Standing in the smoke was my friend Annabeth. Her face was grimy and
scratched. She had a ragged backpack slung over her shoulder, her baseball cap
tucked in her pocket, a bronze knife in her hand, and a wild look in her stormgrey eyes, like she’d just been chased a thousand miles by ghosts.
Matt Sloan, who’d been standing there dumbfounded the whole time, finally
came to his senses. He blinked at Annabeth, as if he dimly recognized her from
my notebook picture. ‘That’s the girl … That’s the girl –’
Annabeth punched him in the nose and knocked him flat. ‘And you’, she told
him, ‘lay off my friend.’
The gym was in flames. Kids were still running around screaming. I heard
sirens wailing and a garbled voice over the intercom. Through the glass windows
of the exit doors, I could see the headmaster, Mr Bonsai, wrestling with the lock,
a crowd of teachers piling up behind him.
‘Annabeth…’ I stammered. ‘How did you … how long have you…’
‘Pretty much all morning.’ She sheathed her bronze knife. ‘I’ve been trying to
find a good time to talk to you, but you were never alone.’
‘The shadow I saw this morning – that was –’ My face felt hot. ‘Oh my gods,
you were looking in my bedroom window?’
‘There’s no time to explain!’ she snapped, though she looked a little red-faced
herself. ‘I just didn’t want to –’
‘There!’ a woman screamed. The doors burst open and the adults came
pouring in.
‘Meet me outside,’ Annabeth told me. ‘And him.’ She pointed to Tyson, who
was still sitting dazed against the wall. Annabeth gave him a look of distaste that
I didn’t quite understand. ‘You’d better bring him.’
‘What?’
‘No time!’she said. ‘Hurry!’
She put on her Yankees baseball cap, which was a magic gift from her mom,
and instantly vanished.
That left me standing alone in the middle of the burning gymnasium when the
headmaster came charging in with half the faculty and a couple of police
officers.
‘Percy Jackson?’ Mr Bonsai said. ‘What … how…’
Over by the broken wall, Tyson groaned and stood up from the pile of cinder
blocks. ‘Head hurts.’
Matt Sloan was coming around, too. He focused on me with a look of terror.
‘Percy did it, Mr Bonsai! He set the whole building on fire. Coach Nunley will
tell you! He saw it all!’
Coach Nunley had been dutifully reading his magazine, but just my luck – he
chose that moment to look up when Sloan said his name. ‘Eh? Yeah. Mm-hmm.’
The other adults turned towards me. I knew they would never believe me,
even if I could tell them the truth.
I grabbed Riptide out of my ruined jeans, told Tyson, ‘Come on!’ and jumped
through the gaping hole in the side of the building.