CHAPTER 13: We Visit The Junkyard Of The Gods
We rode the boar until sunset, which was about as much as my backside could
take. Imagine riding a giant steel brush over a bed of gravel all day. That’s about
how comfortable boar-riding was.
I have no idea how many miles we covered, but the mountains faded into the
distance and were replaced by miles of flat dry land. The grass and scrub brush
got sparser until we were galloping (do boars gallop?) across the desert.
As night fell, the boar came to a stop at a creek bed and snorted. He started
drinking the muddy water, then ripped a saguaro cactus out of the ground and
chewed it, needles and all.
‘This is as far as he’ll go,’ Grover said. ‘We need to get off while he’s eating.’
Nobody needed convincing. We slipped off the boar’s back while he was busy
ripping up cacti. Then we waddled away as best we could with our saddle sores.
After its third saguaro and another drink of muddy water, the boar squealed
and belched, then whirled round and galloped back towards the east.
‘It likes the mountains better,’ I guessed.
‘I can’t blame it,’ Thalia said. ‘Look.’
Ahead of us was a two-lane road half blown over with sand. On the other side
of the road was a cluster of buildings too small to be a town: a boarded-up
house, a taco shop that looked like it hadn’t been open since before Zoë
Nightshade was born, and a white stucco post office with a sign that said GILA
CLAW, ARIZONA hanging crooked above the door. Beyond that was a range of
hills… but then I noticed they weren’t regular hills. The countryside was way
too flat for that. The hills were enormous mounds of old cars, appliances, and
other scrap metal. It was a junkyard that seemed to go on forever.
‘Whoa,’ I said.
‘Something tells me we’re not going to find a car rental here,’ Thalia said. She
looked at Grover. ‘I don’t suppose you got another wild boar up your sleeve?’
Grover was sniffing the wind, looking nervous. He fished out his acorns and
threw them into the sand, then played his pipes. They rearranged themselves in a
pattern that made no sense to me, but Grover looked concerned.
‘That’s us,’ he said. ‘Those five nuts right there.’
‘Which one is me?’ I asked.
‘The little deformed one,’ Zoë suggested.
‘Oh, shut up.’
‘That cluster right there,’ Grover said, pointing to the left, ‘that’s trouble.’
‘A monster?’ Thalia asked.
Grover looked uneasy. ‘I don’t smell anything, which doesn’t make sense. But
the acorns don’t lie. Our next challenge…’
He pointed straight towards the junkyard. With the sunlight almost gone now,
the hills of metal looked like something on an alien planet.
We decided to camp for the night and try the junkyard in the morning. None of
us wanted to go dump-diving in the dark.
Zoë and Bianca produced five sleeping bags and foam mattresses out of their
backpacks. I don’t know how they did it, because the packs were tiny, but they
must’ve been enchanted to hold more stuff. I’d noticed their bows and quivers
were also magic. I never really thought about it, but when the Hunters needed
them, they just appeared slung over their backs. And when they didn’t, they were
gone.
The night got chilly fast, so Grover and I collected old boards from the ruined
house, and Thalia zapped them with an electric shock to start a campfire. Pretty
soon we were about as comfy as you can get in a rundown ghost town in the
middle of nowhere.
‘The stars are out,’ Zoë said.
She was right. There were millions of them, with no city lights to turn the sky
orange.
‘Amazing,’ Bianca said. ‘I’ve never actually seen the Milky Way.’
‘This is nothing,’ Zoë said. ‘In the old days, there were more. Whole
constellations have disappeared because of human light pollution.’
‘You talk like you’re not human,’ I said.
Zoë raised an eyebrow. ‘I am a Hunter. I care what happens to the wild places
of the world. Can the same be said for thee?’
‘For you’, Thalia corrected. ‘Not thee.’
‘But you use you for the beginning of a sentence.’
‘And for the end,’ Thalia said. ‘No thou. No thee. Just you.’
Zoë threw up her hands in exasperation. ‘I hate this language. It changes too
often!’
Grover sighed. He was still looking up at the stars like he was thinking about
the light pollution problem. ‘If only Pan were here, he would set things right.’
Zoë nodded sadly.
‘Maybe it was the coffee,’ Grover said. ‘I was drinking coffee, and the wind
came. Maybe if I drank more coffee…’
I was pretty sure coffee had nothing to do with what had happened in
Cloudcroft, but I didn’t have the heart to tell Grover. I thought about the rubber
rat and the paper birds that had suddenly come alive when the wind blew.
‘Grover, do you really think that was Pan? I mean, I know you want it to be.’
‘He sent us help,’ Grover insisted. ‘I don’t know how or why. But it was his
presence. After this quest is done, I’m going back to New Mexico and drinking a
lot of coffee. It’s the best lead we’ve got in two thousand years. I was so close.’
I didn’t answer. I didn’t want to squash Grover’s hopes.
‘What I want to know,’ Thalia said, looking at Bianca, ‘is how you destroyed
one of the zombies. There are a lot more out there somewhere. We need to figure
out how to fight them.’
Bianca shook her head. ‘I don’t know. I just stabbed it and it went up in
flames.’
‘Maybe there’s something special about your knife,’ I said.
‘It is the same as mine,’ Zoë said. ‘Celestial bronze, yes. But mine did not
affect the warriors that way.’
‘Maybe you have to hit the skeleton in a certain spot,’ I said.
Bianca looked uncomfortable with everybody paying attention to her.
‘Never mind,’ Zoë told her. ‘We will find the answer. In the meantime, we
should plan our next move. When we get through this junkyard, we must
continue west. If we can find a road, we can hitchhike to the nearest city. I think
that would be Las Vegas.’
I was about to protest that Grover and I had had bad experiences in that town,
but Bianca beat us to it.
‘No!’she said. ‘Not there!’
She looked really freaked out, like she’d just been dropped off the steep end of
a roller coaster.
Zoë frowned. ‘Why?’
Bianca took a shaky breath. ‘I… I think we stayed there for a while. Nico and
I. When we were travelling. And then, I can’t remember…’
Suddenly I had a really bad thought. I remembered what Bianca had told me
about Nico and her staying in a hotel for a while. I met Grover’s eyes, and I got
the feeling he was thinking the same thing.
‘Bianca,’ I said. ‘That hotel you stayed at. Was it possibly called the Lotus
Hotel and Casino?’
Her eyes widened. ‘How could you know that?’
‘Oh, great,’ I said.
‘Wait,’ Thalia said. ‘What is the Lotus Casino?’
‘A couple of years ago,’ I said, ‘Grover, Annabeth and I got trapped there. It’s
designed so you never want to leave. We stayed for about an hour. When we
came out, five days had passed. It makes time speed up.’
‘No,’ Bianca said. ‘No, that’s not possible.’
‘You said somebody came and got you out,’ I remembered.
‘Yes.’
‘What did he look like? What did he say?’
‘I… I don’t remember. Please, I really don’t want to talk about this.’
Zoë sat forward, her eyebrows knitted with concern. ‘You said that
Washington, D.C. had changed when you went back last summer. You didn’t
remember the subway being there.’
‘Yes, but –’
‘Bianca,’ Zoë said, ‘can you tell me the name of the president of the United
States right now?’
‘Don’t be silly,’ Bianca said. She told us the correct name of the president.
‘And who was the president before that?’ Zoë asked.
Bianca thought for a while. ‘Roosevelt.’
Zoë swallowed. ‘Theodore or Franklin?’
‘Franklin,’ Bianca said. ‘F.D.R.’
‘Like F.D.R. Drive?’ I asked. Because, seriously, that’s about all I knew about
F.D.R.
‘Bianca,’ Zoë said. ‘F.D.R. was not the last president. That was about seventy
years ago.’
‘That’s impossible,’ Bianca said. ‘I… I’m not that old.’
She stared at her hands as if to make sure they weren’t wrinkled.
Thalia’s eyes turned sad. I guess she knew what it was like to get pulled out of
time for a while. ‘It’s okay, Bianca. The important thing is you and Nico are safe.
You made it out.’
‘But how?’ I said. ‘We were only in there for an hour and we barely escaped.
How could you have escaped after being there for so long?’
‘I told you.’ Bianca looked about ready to cry. ‘A man came and said it was
time to leave. And –’
‘But who? Why did he do it?’
Before she could answer, we were hit with a blazing light from down the road.
The headlights of a car appeared out of nowhere. I was half hoping it was
Apollo, come to give us a ride again, but the engine was way too silent for the
sun chariot, and, besides, it was night-time. We grabbed our sleeping bags and
got out of the way as a deathly white limousine slid to a stop in front of us.
The back door of the limo opened right next to me. Before I could step away, the
point of a sword touched my throat.
I heard the sound of Zoë and Bianca drawing their bows. As the owner of the
sword got out of the car, I moved back very slowly. I had to, because he was
pushing the point under my chin.
He smiled cruelly. ‘Not so fast now, are you, punk?’
He was a big man with a crew cut, a black leather biker’s jacket, black jeans, a
skin-tight white vest and combat boots. Wraparound shades hid his eyes, but I
knew what was behind those glasses – hollow sockets filled with flames.
‘Ares,’ I growled.
The war god glanced at my friends. ‘At ease, people.’
He snapped his fingers, and their weapons fell to the ground.
‘This is a friendly meeting.’ He dug the point of his blade a little further under
my chin. ‘Of course I’d like to take your head for a trophy, but someone wants to
see you. And I never behead my enemies in front of a lady.’
‘What lady?’ Thalia asked.
Ares looked over at her. ‘Well, well. I heard you were back.’
He lowered his sword and pushed me away.
‘Thalia, daughter of Zeus,’ Ares mused. ‘You’re not hanging out with very
good company.’
‘What’s your business, Ares?’she said. ‘Who’s in the car?’
Ares smiled, enjoying the attention. ‘Oh, I doubt she wants to meet the rest of
you. Particularly not them.’ He jutted his chin towards Zoë and Bianca. ‘Why
don’t you all go get some tacos while you wait? Only take Percy a few minutes.’
‘We will not leave him alone with thee, Lord Ares,’ Zoë said.
‘Besides,’ Grover managed, ‘the taco place is closed.’
Ares snapped his fingers again. The lights inside the taqueria suddenly blazed
to life. The boards flew off the door and the CLOSED sign flipped to OPEN.
‘You were saying, goat boy?’
‘Go on,’ I told my friends. ‘I’ll handle this.’
I tried to sound more confident than I felt. I don’t think Ares was fooled.
‘You heard the boy,’ Ares said. ‘He’s big and strong. He’s got things under
control.’
My friends reluctantly headed over to the taco restaurant. Ares regarded me
with loathing then opened the limousine door like a chauffeur.
‘Get inside, punk,’ he said. ‘And mind your manners. She’s not as forgiving of
rudeness as I am.’
When I saw her, my jaw dropped.
I forgot my name. I forgot where I was. I forgot how to speak in complete
sentences.
She was wearing a red satin dress and her hair was curled in a cascade of
ringlets. Her face was the most beautiful I’d ever seen: perfect makeup, dazzling
eyes, a smile that would’ve lit up the dark side of the moon.
Thinking back on it, I can’t tell you who she looked like. Or even what colour
her hair or her eyes were. Pick the most beautiful actress you can think of. The
goddess was ten times more beautiful than that. Pick your favourite hair colour,
eye colour, whatever. The goddess had that.
When she smiled at me, just for a moment she looked a little like Annabeth.
Then like this television actress I used to have a crush on in fifth grade. Then…
well, you get the idea.
‘Ah, there you are, Percy,’ the goddess said. ‘I am Aphrodite.’
I slipped into the seat across from her and said something like, ‘Um uh gah.’
She smiled. ‘Aren’t you sweet. Hold this, please.’
She handed me a polished mirror the size of a dinner plate and had me hold it
up for her. She leaned forward and dabbed at her lipstick, though I couldn’t see
anything wrong with it.
‘Do you know why you’re here?’she asked.
I wanted to respond. Why couldn’t I form a complete sentence? She was only
a lady. A seriously beautiful lady. With eyes like pools of spring water… Whoa.
I pinched my own arm, hard.
‘I… I don’t know,’ I managed.
‘Oh, dear,’ Aphrodite said. ‘Still in denial?’
Outside the car, I could hear Ares chuckling. I had a feeling he could hear
every word we said. The idea of him being out there made me angry, and that
helped clear my mind.
‘I don’t know what you’re talking about,’ I said.
‘Well then, why are you on this quest?’
‘Artemis has been captured!’
Aphrodite rolled her eyes. ‘Oh, Artemis. Please. Talk about a hopeless case. I
mean, if they were going to kidnap a goddess, she should be breathtakingly
beautiful, don’t you think? I pity the poor dears who have to imprison Artemis.
Bo-ring!’
‘But she was chasing a monster,’ I protested. ‘A really, really bad monster. We
have to find it!’
Aphrodite made me hold the mirror a little higher. She seemed to have found a
microscopic problem at the corner of her eye and dabbed at her mascara.
‘Always some monster. But, my dear Percy, that is why the others are on this
quest. I’m more interested in you.’
My heart pounded. I didn’t want to answer, but her eyes drew an answer right
out of my mouth. ‘Annabeth is in trouble.’
Aphrodite beamed. ‘Exactly!’
‘I have to help her,’ I said. ‘I’ve been having these dreams.’
‘Ah, you even dream about her! That’s so cute!’
‘No! I mean… that’s not what I meant.’
She made a tsk tsk sound. ‘Percy, I’m on your side. I’m the reason you’re here,
after all.’
I stared at her. ‘What?’
‘The poisoned T-shirt the Stoll brothers gave Phoebe,’she said. ‘Did you think
that was an accident? Sending Blackjack to find you? Helping you sneak out of
the camp?’
‘You did that?’
‘Of course! Because, really, how boring these Hunters are! A quest for some
monster, blah blah blah. Saving Artemis. Let her stay lost, I say. But a quest for
true love –’
‘Wait a second, I never said –’
‘Oh, my dear. You don’t need to say it. You do know Annabeth was close to
joining the Hunters, don’t you?’
I blushed. ‘I wasn’t sure –’
‘She was about to throw her life away! And you, my dear, you can save her
from that. It’s so romantic!’
‘Uh…’
‘Oh, put the mirror down,’ Aphrodite ordered. ‘I look fine.’
I hadn’t realized I was still holding it, but as soon as I put it down, I noticed
my arms were sore.
‘Now listen, Percy,’ Aphrodite said. ‘The Hunters are your enemies. Forget
them and Artemis and the monster. That’s not important. You just concentrate on
finding and saving Annabeth.’
‘Do you know where she is?’
Aphrodite waved her hand irritably. ‘No, no. I leave the details to you. But it’s
been ages since we’ve had a good tragic love story.’
‘Whoa, first of all, I never said anything about love. And second, what’s up
with tragic?’
‘Love conquers all,’ Aphrodite promised. ‘Look at Helen and Paris. Did they
let anything come between them?’
‘Didn’t they start the Trojan War and get thousands of people killed?’
‘Pfft. That’s not the point. Follow your heart.’
‘But… I don’t know where it’s going. My heart, I mean.’
She smiled sympathetically. She really was beautiful. And not just because she
had a pretty face or anything. She believed in love so much, it was impossible
not to feel giddy when she talked about it.
‘Not knowing is half the fun,’ Aphrodite said. ‘Exquisitely painful, isn’t it?
Not being sure who you love and who loves you? Oh, you kids! It’s so cute I’m
going to cry.’
‘No, no,’ I said. ‘Don’t do that.’
‘And don’t worry,’she said. ‘I’m not going let this be easy and boring for you.
No, I have some wonderful surprises in store. Anguish. Indecision. Oh, you just
wait.’
‘That’s really okay,’ I told her. ‘Don’t go to any trouble.’
‘You’re so cute. I wish all my daughters could break the heart of a boy as nice
as you.’ Aphrodite’s eyes were tearing up. ‘Now, you’d better go. And do be
careful in my husband’s territory, Percy. Don’t take anything. He is awfully fussy
about his trinkets and trash.’
‘What?’ I asked. ‘You mean Hephaestus?’
But the car door opened and Ares grabbed my shoulder, pulling me out of the
car and back into the desert night.
My audience with the goddess of love was over.
‘You’re lucky, punk.’ Ares pushed me away from the limo. ‘Be grateful.’
‘For what?’
‘That we’re being so nice. If it was up to me –’
‘So why haven’t you killed me?’ I shot back. It was a stupid thing to say to the
god of war, but being around him always made me feel angry and reckless.
Ares nodded, like I’d finally said something intelligent.
‘I’d love to kill you, seriously,’ he said. ‘But, see, I got a situation. Word on
Olympus is that you might start the biggest war in history. I can’t risk messing
that up. Besides, Aphrodite thinks you’re some kinda soap-opera star or
something. I kill you, that makes me look bad with her. But don’t worry. I
haven’t forgotten my promise. Some day soon, kid – real soon – you’re going to
raise your sword to fight, and you’re going to remember the wrath of Ares.’
I balled my fists. ‘Why wait? I beat you once. How’s that ankle healing up?’
He grinned crookedly. ‘Not bad, punk. But you got nothing on the master of
taunts. I’ll start the fight when I’m good and ready. Until then… Get lost.’
He snapped his fingers and the world did a three-sixty, spinning in a cloud of
red dust. I fell to the ground.
When I stood up again, the limousine was gone. The road, the taco restaurant,
the whole town of Gila Claw was gone. My friends and I were standing in the
middle of the junkyard, mountains of scrap metal stretched out in every
direction.
‘What did she want with you?’ Bianca asked, once I’d told them about
Aphrodite.
‘Oh, uh, not sure,’ I lied. ‘She said to be careful in her husband’s junkyard.
She said not to pick anything up.’
Zoë narrowed her eyes. ‘The goddess of love would not make a special trip to
tell thee that. Be careful, Percy. Aphrodite has led many heroes astray.’
‘For once, I agree with Zoë,’ Thalia said. ‘You can’t trust Aphrodite.’
Grover was looking at me funny. Being empathic and all, he could usually
read my emotions, and I got the feeling he knew exactly what Aphrodite had
talked to me about.
‘So,’ I said, anxious to change the subject, ‘how do we get out of here?’
‘That way,’ Zoë said. ‘That is west.’
‘How can you tell?’
In the light of the full moon, I was surprised how well I could see her roll her
eyes at me. ‘Ursa Major is in the north,’ she said, ‘which means that must be
west.’
She pointed west, then at the northern constellation, which was hard to make
out because there were so many other stars.
‘Oh, yeah,’ I said. ‘The bear thing.’
Zoë looked offended. ‘Show some respect. It was a fine bear. A worthy
opponent.’
‘You act like it was real.’
‘Guys,’ Grover broke in. ‘Look!’
We’d reached the crest of a junk mountain. Piles of metal objects glinted in
the moonlight: broken heads of bronze horses, metal legs from human statues,
smashed chariots, tons of shields and swords and other weapons, along with
more modern stuff, like cars that gleamed gold and silver, refrigerators, washing
machines and computer monitors.
‘Whoa,’ Bianca said. ‘That stuff… some of it looks like real gold.’
‘It is,’ Thalia said grimly. ‘Like Percy said, don’t touch anything. This is the
junkyard of the gods.’
‘Junk?’ Grover picked up a beautiful crown made of gold, silver and jewels. It
was broken on one side, as if it had been split by an axe. ‘You call this junk?’
He bit off a point and began to chew. ‘It’s delicious!’
Thalia swatted the crown out of his hands. ‘I’m serious!’
‘Look!’ Bianca said. She raced down the hill, tripping over bronze coils and
golden plates. She picked up a bow that glowed silver in moonlight. ‘A Hunter’s
bow!’
She yelped in surprise as the bow began to shrink, and became a hair clip
shaped like a crescent moon. ‘It’s just like Percy’s sword!’
Zoë’s face was grim. ‘Leave it, Bianca.’
‘But –’
‘It is here for a reason. Anything thrown away in this junkyard must stay in
this yard. It is defective. Or cursed.’
Bianca reluctantly set the hair clip down.
‘I don’t like this place,’ Thalia said. She gripped the shaft of her spear.
‘You think we’re going to get attacked by killer refrigerators?’ I asked.
She gave me a hard look. ‘Zoë is right, Percy. Things get thrown away here
for a reason. Now come on, let’s get across the yard.’
‘That’s the second time you’ve agreed with Zoë,’ I muttered, but Thalia
ignored me.
We started picking our way through the hills and valleys of junk. The stuff
seemed to go on forever, and if it hadn’t been for Ursa Major, we would’ve got
lost. All the hills pretty much looked the same.
I’d like to say we left the stuff alone, but there was too much cool junk not to
check out some of it. I found an electric guitar shaped like Apollo’s lyre that was
so sweet I had to pick it up. Grover found a broken tree made out of metal. It had
been chopped to pieces, but some of the branches still had golden birds in them,
and they whirred around when Grover picked them up, trying to flap their wings.
Finally, we saw the edge of the junkyard about half a mile ahead of us, the
lights of a highway stretching through the desert. But between us and the road…
‘What is that?’ Bianca gasped.
Ahead of us was a hill much bigger and longer than the others. It was like a
metal mesa, the length of a football field and as tall as goalposts. At one end of
the mesa was a row of ten thick metal columns, wedged tightly together.
Bianca frowned. ‘They look like –’
‘Toes,’ Grover said.
Bianca nodded. ‘Really, really large toes.’
Zoë and Thalia exchanged nervous looks.
‘Let’s go around,’ Thalia said. ‘Far around.’
‘But the road is right over there,’ I protested. ‘Quicker to climb over.’
Ping.
Thalia hefted her spear and Zoë drew her bow, but then I realized it was only
Grover. He had thrown a piece of scrap metal at the toes and hit one, making a
deep echo, as if the column were hollow.
‘Why did you do that?’ Zoë demanded.
Grover cringed. ‘I don’t know. I, uh, don’t like fake feet?’
‘Come on.’ Thalia looked at me. ‘Around.’
I didn’t argue. The toes were starting to freak me out, too. I mean, who sculpts
three-metre-tall metal toes and sticks them in a junkyard?
After several minutes of walking, we finally stepped onto the highway, an
abandoned but well-lit stretch of black tarmac.
‘We made it out,’ Zoë said. ‘Thank the gods.’
But apparently the gods didn’t want to be thanked. At that moment I heard a
sound like a thousand trash compactors crushing metal.
I whirled round. Behind us, the scrap mountain was boiling, rising up. The ten
toes tilted over, and I realized why they looked like toes. They were toes. The
thing that rose up from the metal was a bronze giant in full Greek battle armour.
He was impossibly tall – a skyscraper with legs and arms. He gleamed wickedly
in the moonlight. He looked down at us, and his face was deformed. The left side
was partially melted off. His joints creaked with rust, and across his armoured
chest, written in thick dust by some giant finger, were the words WASH ME.
‘Talos!’ Zoë gasped.
‘Who… who’s Talos?’ I stuttered.
‘One of Hephaestus’s creations,’ Thalia said. ‘But that can’t be the original.
It’s too small. A prototype, maybe. A defective model.’
The metal giant didn’t like the word defective.
He moved one hand to his sword belt and drew his weapon. The sound of it
coming out of its sheath was horrible, metal screeching against metal. The blade
was thirty metres long, easy. It looked rusty and dull, but I didn’t figure that
mattered. Getting hit with that thing would be like getting hit with a battleship.
‘Someone took something,’ Zoë said. ‘Who took something?’
She stared accusingly at me.
I shook my head. ‘I’m a lot of things, but I’m not a thief.’
Bianca didn’t say anything. I could swear she looked guilty, but I didn’t have
much time to think about it, because the giant defective Talos took one step
towards us, closing half the distance and making the ground shake.
‘Run!’ Grover yelped.
Great advice, except that it was hopeless. At a leisurely stroll, this thing could
outdistance us easily.
We split up, the way we’d done with the Nemean Lion. Thalia drew her shield
and held it up as she ran down the highway. The giant swung his sword and took
out a row of power lines, which exploded in sparks and scattered across Thalia’s
path.
Zoë’s arrows whistled towards the creature’s face but shattered harmlessly
against the metal. Grover brayed like a baby goat and went climbing up a
mountain of metal.
Bianca and I ended up next to each other, hiding behind a broken chariot.
‘You took something,’ I said. ‘That bow.’
‘No!’she said, but her voice was quivering.
‘Give it back!’ I said. ‘Throw it down!’
‘I… I didn’t take the bow! Besides, it’s too late.’
‘What did you take?’
Before she could answer, I heard a massive creaking noise, and a shadow
blotted out the sky.
‘Move!’ I tore down the hill, Bianca right behind me, as the giant’s foot
smashed a crater in the ground where we’d been hiding.
‘Hey, Talos!’ Grover yelled, but the monster raised his sword, looking down at
Bianca and me.
Grover played a quick melody on his pipes. Over at the highway, the downed
power lines began to dance. I understood what Grover was going to do a split
second before it happened. One of the poles with power lines still attached flew
towards Talos’s back leg and wrapped around his calf. The lines sparked and
sent a jolt of electricity up the giant’s backside.
Talos whirled around, creaking and sparking. Grover had bought us a few
seconds.
‘Come on!’ I told Bianca. But she stayed frozen. From her pocket, she brought
out a small metal figurine, a statue of a god. ‘It… it was for Nico. It was the only
statue he didn’t have.’
‘How can you think of Mythomagic at a time like this?’ I said.
There were tears in her eyes.
‘Throw it down,’ I said. ‘Maybe the giant will leave us alone.’
She dropped it reluctantly, but nothing happened.
The giant kept coming after Grover. It stabbed its sword into a junk hill,
missing Grover by a metre or so, but scrap metal made an avalanche over him,
and then I couldn’t see him any more.
‘No!’ Thalia yelled. She pointed her spear, and a blue arc of lightning shot out,
hitting the monster in his rusty knee, which buckled. The giant collapsed, but
immediately started to rise again. It was hard to tell if it could feel anything.
There weren’t any emotions in its half-melted face, but I got the sense that it was
about as ticked off as a twenty-storey-tall metal warrior could be.
He raised his foot to stomp and I saw that his sole was treaded like the bottom
of a trainer. There was a hole in his heel, like a large manhole, and there were
red words painted around it, which I deciphered only after the foot came down:
FOR MAINTENANCE ONLY.
‘Crazy-idea time,’ I said.
Bianca looked at me nervously. ‘Anything.’
I told her about the maintenance hatch. ‘There may be a way to control the
thing. Switches or something. I’m going to get inside.’
‘How? You’ll have to stand under its foot! You’ll be crushed.’
‘Distract it,’ I said. ‘I’ll just have to time it right.’
Bianca’s jaw tightened. ‘No. I’ll go.’
‘You can’t. You’re new at this! You’ll die.’
‘It’s my fault the monster came after us,’ she said. ‘It’s my responsibility.
Here.’ She picked up the little god statue and pressed it into my hand. ‘If
anything happens, give that to Nico. Tell him… tell him I’m sorry.’
‘Bianca, no!’
But she wasn’t waiting for me. She charged at the monster’s left foot.
Thalia had its attention for the moment. She’d learned that the giant was big
but slow. If you could stay close to it and not get smashed, you could run around
it and stay alive. At least, it was working so far.
Bianca got right next to the giant’s foot, trying to balance herself on the metal
scraps that swayed and shifted with his weight.
Zoë yelled, ‘What are you doing?’
‘Get it to raise its foot!’she said.
Zoë shot an arrow towards the monster’s face and it flew straight into one
nostril. The giant straightened and shook its head.
‘Hey, Junk Boy!’ I yelled. ‘Down here.’
I ran up to its big toe and stabbed it with Riptide. The magic blade cut a gash
in the bronze.
Unfortunately, my plan worked. Talos looked down at me and raised his foot
to squash me like a bug. I didn’t see what Bianca was doing. I had to turn and
run. The foot came down right behind me and I was knocked into the air. I hit
something hard and sat up, dazed. I’d been thrown into an Olympus-Air
refrigerator.
The monster was about to finish me off, but Grover somehow dug himself out
of the junk pile. He played his pipes frantically, and his music sent another
power line pole whacking against Talos’s thigh. The monster turned. Grover
should’ve run, but he must’ve been too exhausted from the effort of so much
magic. He took two steps, fell and didn’t get back up.
‘Grover!’ Thalia and I both ran towards him, but I knew we’d be too late.
The monster raised his sword to smash Grover. Then he froze.
Talos cocked his head to one side, like he was hearing strange new music. He
started moving his arms and legs in weird ways, doing the Funky Chicken. Then
he made a fist and punched himself in the face.
‘Go, Bianca!’ I yelled.
Zoë looked horrified. ‘She is inside?’
The monster staggered around, and I realized we were still in danger. Thalia
and I grabbed Grover and ran with him towards the highway. Zoë was already
ahead of us. She yelled, ‘How will Bianca get out?’
The giant hit itself in the head again and dropped his sword. A shudder ran
through his whole body and he staggered towards the power lines.
‘Look out!’ I yelled, but it was too late.
The giant’s ankle snared the lines, and blue flickers of electricity shot up his
body. I hoped the inside was insulated. I had no idea what was going on in there.
The giant careened back into the junkyard, and his right hand fell off, landing in
the scrap metal with a horrible CLANG!
His left arm came loose, too. He was falling apart at the joints.
Talos began to run.
‘Wait!’ Zoë yelled. We ran after him, but there was no way we could keep up.
Pieces of the robot kept falling off, getting in our way.
The giant crumbled from the top down: his head, pieces of his chest, and
finally his torso and legs collapsed. When we reached the wreckage we searched
frantically, yelling Bianca’s name. We crawled around in the vast hollow chest
pieces and the legs and the torso. We searched until the sun started to rise, but no
luck.
Zoë sat down and wept. I was stunned to see her cry.
Thalia yelled in rage and impaled her sword in the giant’s smashed face.
‘We can keep searching,’ I said. ‘It’s light now. We’ll find her.’
‘No we won’t,’ Grover said miserably. ‘It happened just as it was supposed
to.’
‘What are you talking about?’ I demanded.
He looked up at me with big watery eyes. ‘The prophecy. One shall be lost in
the land without rain.’
Why hadn’t I seen it? Why had I let her go instead of me?
Here we were in the desert. And Bianca di Angelo was gone.