CHAPTER 5: I Drive My Dog Into a Tree
Mrs O’Leary saw me before I saw her, which was a pretty good trick considering
she’s the size of a garbage truck. I walked into the arena and a wall of darkness
slammed into me.
‘WOOF!’
The next thing I knew I was flat on the ground with a huge paw on my chest
and an oversized Brillo-pad tongue licking my face.
‘Ow!’ I said. ‘Hey, girl. Good to see you, too. Ow!’
It took a few minutes for Mrs O’Leary to calm down and get off me. By then I
was pretty much drenched in dog drool. She wanted to play fetch, so I picked up
a bronze shield and tossed it across the arena.
By the way, Mrs O’Leary is the world’s only friendly hellhound. I kind of
inherited her when her previous owner died. She lived at camp, but
Beckendorf … well, Beckendorf used to take care of her whenever I was gone.
He had smelted Mrs O’Leary’s favourite bronze chewing bone. He’d forged her
collar with the little smiley face and crossbones nametag. Beckendorf had been
her best friend next to me.
Thinking about that made me sad all over again, but I threw the shield a few
more times because Mrs O’Leary insisted.
Soon she started barking – a sound slightly louder than an artillery gun – like
she needed to go for a walk. The other campers didn’t think it was funny when
she went to the bathroom in the arena. It had caused more than one unfortunate
slip-and-slide accident. So I opened the gates of the arena and she bounded
straight towards the woods.
I jogged after her, not too concerned that she was getting ahead. Nothing in
the woods could threaten Mrs O’Leary. Even the dragons and giant scorpions ran
away when she came close.
When I finally tracked her down, she wasn’t using the facilities. She was in a
familiar clearing where the Council of Cloven Elders had once put Grover on
trial. The place didn’t look so good. The grass had turned yellow. The three
topiary thrones had lost all their leaves. But that’s not what surprised me. In the
middle of the glade stood the weirdest trio I’d ever seen: Juniper the tree nymph,
Nico di Angelo and a very old, very fat satyr.
Nico was the only one who didn’t seem freaked out by Mrs O’Leary’s
appearance. He looked pretty much like I’d seen him in my dream – an aviator’s
jacket, black jeans and a T-shirt with dancing skeletons on it like one of those
Day of the Dead pictures. His Stygian-iron sword hung at his side. He was only
twelve, though he looked much older and sadder.
He nodded when he saw me, then went back to scratching Mrs O’Leary’s ears.
She sniffed his legs like he was the most interesting thing since rib-eye steaks.
Being the son of Hades, he’d probably been travelling in all sorts of hellhoundfriendly places.
The old satyr didn’t look nearly so happy. ‘Will someone – what is this
Underworld creature doing in my forest!’ He waved his arms and trotted on his
hooves like the grass was hot. ‘You there, Percy Jackson! Is this your beast?’
‘Sorry, Leneus,’ I said. ‘That’s your name, right?’
The satyr rolled his eyes. His fur was dust-bunny grey and a spider web grew
between his horns. His belly would’ve made him an invincible bumper car.
‘Well, of course I’m Leneus. Don’t tell me you’ve forgotten a member of the
council so quickly. Now call off your beast!’
‘WOOF!’ Mrs O’Leary said happily.
The old satyr gulped. ‘Make it go away! Juniper, I will not help you under
these circumstances!’
Juniper turned towards me. She was pretty in a dryady way, with her purple
gossamer dress and her elfish face, but her eyes were green-tinted with
chlorophyll from crying.
‘Percy,’ she sniffled. ‘I was just asking about Grover. I know something’s
happened. He wouldn’t stay gone this long if he wasn’t in trouble. I was hoping
that Leneus –’
‘I told you!’ the satyr protested. ‘You are better off without that traitor.’
Juniper stamped her foot. ‘He is not a traitor! He’s the bravest satyr ever and I
want to know where he is!’
‘WOOF!’
Leneus’s knees started knocking. ‘I – I won’t answer questions with this
hellhound sniffing my tail!’
Nico looked like he was trying not to crack up. ‘I’ll walk the dog,’ he
volunteered.
He whistled and Mrs O’Leary bounded after him to the far end of the grove.
Leneus huffed indignantly and brushed the twigs off his shirt. ‘Now, as I was
trying to explain, young lady, your boyfriend has not sent any reports since we
voted him into exile.’
‘You tried to vote him into exile,’ I corrected. ‘Chiron and Dionysus stopped
you.’
‘Bah! They are honorary council members. It wasn’t a proper vote.’
‘I’ll tell Dionysus you said that.’
Leneus paled. ‘I only meant – Now see here, Jackson. This is none of your
business.’
‘Grover’s my friend,’ I said. ‘He wasn’t lying to you about Pan’s death. I saw
it myself. You were just too scared to accept the truth.’
Leneus’s lips quivered. ‘No! Grover’s a liar and good riddance. We’re better
off without him.’
I pointed at the withered thrones. ‘If things are going so well, where are your
friends? Looks like your council hasn’t been meeting lately.’
‘Maron and Silenus … I – I’m sure they’ll be back,’ he said, but I could hear
the panic in his voice. ‘They’re just taking some time off to think. It’s been a
very unsettling year.’
‘It’s going to get a lot more unsettling,’ I promised. ‘Leneus, we need Grover.
There’s got to be a way you can find him with your magic.’
The old satyr’s eye twitched. ‘I’m telling you I’ve heard nothing. Perhaps he’s
dead.’
Juniper choked back a sob.
‘He’s not dead,’ I said. ‘I can feel that much.’
‘Empathy links,’ Leneus said disdainfully. ‘Very unreliable.’
‘So ask around,’ I insisted. ‘Find him. There’s a war coming. Grover was
preparing the nature spirits.’
‘Without my permission! And it’s not our war.’
I grabbed him by the shirt, which seriously wasn’t like me, but the stupid old
goat was making me mad. ‘Listen, Leneus. When Kronos attacks, he’s going to
have packs of hellhounds. He’s going to destroy everything in his path – mortals,
gods, demigods. Do you think he’ll let the satyrs go free? You’re supposed to be
a leader. So LEAD. Get out there and see what’s happening. Find Grover and
bring Juniper some news. Now GO!’
I didn’t push him very hard, but he was kind of top-heavy. He fell on his furry
rump, then scrambled to his hooves and ran away with his belly jiggling.
‘Grover will never be accepted! He will die an outcast!’
When he’d disappeared into the bushes, Juniper wiped her eyes. ‘I’m sorry,
Percy. I didn’t mean to get you involved. Leneus is still a Lord of the Wild. You
don’t want to make an enemy of him.’
‘No problem,’ I said. ‘I’ve got worse enemies than overweight satyrs.’
Nico walked back to us. ‘Good job, Percy. Judging from the trail of goat
pellets, I’d say you shook him up pretty well.’
I was afraid I knew why Nico was here, but I tried for a smile. ‘Welcome
back. Did you come by just to see Juniper?’
He blushed. ‘Um, no. That was an accident. I kind of … dropped into the
middle of their conversation.’
‘He scared us to death!’ Juniper said. ‘Right out of the shadows. But, Nico,
you are the son of Hades and all. Are you sure you haven’t heard anything about
Grover?’
Nico shifted his weight. ‘Juniper, like I tried to tell you … even if Grover
died, he would reincarnate into something else in nature. I can’t sense things like
that, only mortal souls.’
‘But if you do hear anything?’ she pleaded, putting her hand on his arm.
‘Anything at all?’
Nico’s cheeks got even brighter red. ‘Uh, you bet. I’ll keep my ears open.’
‘We’ll find him, Juniper,’ I promised. ‘Grover’s alive, I’m sure. There must be
a simple reason why he hasn’t contacted us.’
She nodded glumly. ‘I hate not being able to leave the forest. He could be
anywhere, and I’m stuck here waiting. Oh, if that silly goat has got himself hurt
–’
Mrs O’Leary bounded back over and took an interest in Juniper’s dress.
Juniper yelped. ‘Oh, no you don’t! I know about dogs and trees – I’m gone!’
She went poof into green mist. Mrs O’Leary looked disappointed, but she
lumbered off to find another target, leaving Nico and me alone.
Nico tapped his sword on the ground. A tiny mound of animal bones erupted
from the dirt. They knitted themselves together into a skeletal field mouse and
scampered off. ‘I was sorry to hear about Beckendorf.’
A lump formed in my throat. ‘How did you –’
‘I talked to his ghost.’
‘Oh … right.’ I’d never get used to the fact that this twelve-year-old kid spent
more time talking with the dead than the living. ‘Did he say anything?’
‘He doesn’t blame you. He figured you’d be beating yourself up, and he said
you shouldn’t.’
‘Is he going to try for rebirth?’
Nico shook his head. ‘He’s staying in Elysium. Said he’s waiting for someone.
Not sure what he meant, but he seems okay with death.’
It wasn’t much comfort, but it was something.
‘I had a vision you were on Mount Tam,’ I told Nico. ‘Was that –’
‘Real,’ he said. ‘I didn’t mean to be spying on the Titans, but I was in the
neighbourhood.’
‘Doing what?’
Nico tugged at his sword belt. ‘Following a lead on … you know, my family.’
I nodded. I knew his past was a painful subject. Until two years ago, he and
his sister Bianca had been frozen in time at a place called the Lotus Casino.
They’d been there for like seventy years. Eventually a mysterious lawyer
rescued them and checked them into a boarding school, but Nico had no
memories of his life before the casino. He didn’t know anything about his
mother. He didn’t know who the lawyer was, or why they’d been frozen in time
or allowed to go free. After Bianca died and left Nico alone, he’d been obsessed
with finding answers.
‘So how did it go?’ I asked. ‘Any luck?’
‘No,’ he murmured. ‘But I may have a new lead soon.’
‘What’s the lead?’
Nico chewed his lip. ‘That’s not important right now. You know why I’m
here.’
A feeling of dread started to build in my chest. Ever since Nico first proposed
his plan for beating Kronos last summer, I’d had nightmares about it. He would
show up occasionally and press me for an answer, but I kept putting him off.
‘Nico, I don’t know,’ I said. ‘It seems pretty extreme.’
‘You’ve got Typhon coming in what … a week? Most of the other Titans are
unleashed now and on Kronos’s side. Maybe it’s time to think extreme.’
I looked back towards the camp. Even from this distance, I could hear the
Ares and Apollo campers fighting again, yelling curses and spouting bad poetry.
‘They’re no match for the Titan army,’ Nico said. ‘You know that. This comes
down to you and Luke. And there’s only one way you can beat Luke.’
I remembered the fight on the Princess Andromeda. I’d been hopelessly
outmatched. Kronos had almost killed me with a single cut to my arm, and I
couldn’t even wound him. Riptide had glanced right off his skin.
‘We can give you the same power,’ Nico urged. ‘You heard the Great
Prophecy. Unless you want to have your soul reaped by a cursed blade …’
I wondered how Nico had heard the prophecy – probably from some ghost.
‘You can’t prevent a prophecy,’ I said.
‘But you can fight it.’ Nico had a strange, hungry light in his eyes. ‘You can
become invincible.’
‘Maybe we should wait. Try to fight without –’
‘No!’ Nico snarled. ‘It has to be now!’
I stared at him. I hadn’t seen his temper flare like that in a long time. ‘Um,
you sure you’re okay?’
He took a deep breath. ‘Percy, all I mean … when the fighting starts, we won’t
be able to make the journey. This is our last chance. I’m sorry if I’m being too
pushy, but two years ago my sister gave her life to protect you. I want you to
honour that. Do whatever it takes to stay alive and defeat Kronos.’
I didn’t like the idea. Then I thought about Annabeth calling me a coward, and
I got angry.
Nico had a point. If Kronos attacked New York, the campers would be no
match for his forces. I had to do something. Nico’s way was dangerous – maybe
even deadly. But it might give me a fighting edge.
‘All right,’ I decided. ‘What do we do first?’
His cold, creepy smile made me sorry I’d agreed. ‘First we’ll need to retrace
Luke’s steps. We need to know more about his past, his childhood.’
I shuddered, thinking about Rachel’s picture from my dream – a smiling nineyear-old Luke. ‘Why do we need to know about that?’
‘I’ll explain when we get there,’ Nico said. ‘I’ve already tracked down his
mother. She lives in Connecticut.’
I stared at him. I’d never thought much about Luke’s mortal parent. I’d met
his dad, Hermes, but his mom …
‘Luke ran away when he was really young,’ I said. ‘I didn’t think his mom
was alive.’
‘Oh, she’s alive.’ The way he said it made me wonder what was wrong with
her. What kind of horrible person could she be?
‘Okay …’ I said. ‘So how do we get to Connecticut? I can call Blackjack –’
‘No.’ Nico scowled. ‘Pegasi don’t like me, and the feeling is mutual. But
there’s no need for flying.’ He whistled, and Mrs O’Leary came loping out of the
woods.
‘Your friend here can help.’ Nico patted her head. ‘You haven’t tried shadowtravel yet?’
‘Shadow-travel?’
Nico whispered in Mrs O’Leary’s ear. She tilted her head, suddenly alert.
‘Hop on board,’ Nico told me.
I’d never considered riding a dog before, but Mrs O’Leary was certainly big
enough. I climbed onto her back and held her collar.
‘This will make her very tired,’ Nico warned, ‘so you can’t do it often. And it
works best at night. But all shadows are part of the same substance. There is
only one darkness, and creatures of the Underworld can use it as a road, or a
door.’
‘I don’t understand,’ I said.
‘No,’ Nico said. ‘It took me a long time to learn. But Mrs O’Leary knows. Tell
her where to go. Tell her Westport, the home of May Castellan.’
‘You’re not coming?’
‘Don’t worry,’ he said. ‘I’ll meet you there.’
I was a little nervous, but I leaned down to Mrs O’Leary’s ear. ‘Okay, girl. Uh,
can you take me to Westport, Connecticut? May Castellan’s place?’
Mrs O’Leary sniffed the air. She looked into the gloom of the forest. Then she
bounded forward, straight into an oak tree.
Just before we hit, we passed into shadows as cold as the dark side of the
moon.