CHAPTER 7: Everybody Hates Me But The Horse
The least the Oracle could’ve done was walk back to the attic by herself.
Instead, Grover and I were elected to carry her. I didn’t figure that was
because we were the most popular.
‘Watch her head!’ Grover warned as we went up the stairs. But it was too late.
Bonk! I whacked her mummified face against the trapdoor frame and dust
flew.
‘Ah, man.’ I set her down and checked for damage. ‘Did I break anything?’
‘I can’t tell,’ Grover admitted.
We hauled her up and set her on her tripod stool, both of us huffing and
sweating. Who knew a mummy could weigh so much?
I assumed she wouldn’t talk to me, and I was right. I was relieved when we
finally got out of there and slammed the attic door shut.
‘Well,’ Grover said, ‘that was gross.’
I knew he was trying to keep things light for my sake, but I still felt really
down. The whole camp would be mad at me for losing the game to the Hunters,
and then there was the new prophecy from the Oracle. It was like the spirit of
Delphi had gone out of her way to exclude me. She’d ignored my question and
walked half a mile to talk to Zoë. And she’d said nothing, not even a hint, about
Annabeth.
‘What will Chiron do?’ I asked Grover.
‘I wish I knew.’ He looked wistfully out of the second-floor window at the
rolling hills covered in snow. ‘I want to be out there.’
‘Searching for Annabeth?’
He had a little trouble focusing on me. Then he blushed. ‘Oh, right. That too.
Of course.’
‘Why?’ I asked. ‘What were you thinking?’
He clopped his hooves uneasily. ‘Just something the manticore said, about the
Great Stirring. I can’t help but wonder… if all those ancient powers are waking
up, maybe… maybe not all of them are evil.’
‘You mean Pan.’
I felt kind of selfish, because I’d totally forgotten about Grover’s life
ambition. The nature god had gone missing two thousand years ago. He was
rumoured to have died, but the satyrs didn’t believe that. They were determined
to find him. They’d been searching in vain for centuries, and Grover was
convinced he’d be the one to succeed. This year, with Chiron putting all the
satyrs on emergency duty to find half-bloods, Grover hadn’t been able to
continue his search. It must’ve been driving him nuts.
‘I’ve let the trail go cold,’ he said. ‘I feel restless, like I’m missing something
really important. He’s out there somewhere. I can just feel it.’
I didn’t know what to say. I wanted to encourage him, but I didn’t know how.
My optimism had pretty much been trampled into the snow out there in the
woods, along with our capture-the-flag hopes.
Before I could respond, Thalia tromped up the stairs. She was officially not
talking to me now, but she looked at Grover and said, ‘Tell Percy to get his butt
downstairs.’
‘Why?’ I asked.
‘Did he say something?’ Thalia asked Grover.
‘Um, he asked why.’
‘Dionysus is calling a council of cabin leaders to discuss the prophecy,’ she
said. ‘Unfortunately, that includes Percy.’
The council was held round a ping-pong table in the rec room. Dionysus waved
his hand and supplied snacks: Cheez Whiz, crackers and several bottles of red
wine. Then Chiron reminded him that wine was against his restrictions and most
of us were underage. Mr D sighed. With a snap of his fingers the wine turned to
Diet Coke. Nobody drank that either.
Mr D and Chiron (in wheelchair form) sat at one end of the table. Zoë and
Bianca di Angelo (who had kind of become Zoë’s personal assistant) took the
other end. Thalia and Grover and I sat along the right, and the other head
councillors, Beckendorf, Silena Beauregard, and the Stoll brothers, sat on the
left. The Ares kids were supposed to send a representative, too, but all of them
had got broken limbs (accidentally) during capture the flag, courtesy of the
Hunters. They were resting up in the infirmary.
Zoë started the meeting off on a positive note. ‘This is pointless.’
‘Cheez Whiz!’ Grover gasped. He began scooping up crackers and ping-pong
balls and spraying them with topping.
‘There is no time for talk,’ Zoë continued. ‘Our goddess needs us. The
Hunters must leave immediately.’
‘And go where?’ Chiron asked.
‘West!’ Bianca said. I was amazed at how different she looked after just a few
days with the Hunters. Her dark hair was braided like Zoë’s now, so you could
actually see her face. She had a splash of freckles across her nose, and her dark
eyes vaguely reminded me of someone famous, but I couldn’t think who. She
looked like she’d been working out, and her skin glowed faintly, like the other
Hunters, as if she’d been taking showers in liquid moonlight. ‘You heard the
prophecy. ‘Five shall go west to the goddess in chains.’ We can get five hunters
and go.’
‘Yes,’ Zoë agreed. ‘Artemis is being held hostage! We must find her and free
her.’
‘You’re missing something, as usual,’ Thalia said. ‘Campers and Hunters
combined prevail. We’re supposed to do this together.’
‘No!’ Zoë said. ‘The Hunters do not need thy help.’
‘Your,’ Thalia grumbled. ‘Nobody has said thy in like three hundred years,
Zoë. Get with the times.’
Zoë hesitated, like she was trying to form the word correctly. ‘Yerrr. We do not
need yerrr help.’
Thalia rolled her eyes. ‘Forget it.’
‘I fear the prophecy says you do need our help,’ Chiron said. ‘Campers and
Hunters must cooperate.’
‘Or do they?’ Mr D mused, swirling his Diet Coke under his nose like it had a
fine bouquet. ‘One shall be lost. One shall perish. That sounds rather nasty,
doesn’t it? What if you fail because you try to cooperate?’
‘Mr D,’ Chiron sighed, ‘with all due respect, whose side are you on?’
Dionysus raised his eyebrows. ‘Sorry, my dear centaur. Just trying to be
helpful.’
‘We’re supposed to work together,’ Thalia said stubbornly. ‘I don’t like it
either, Zoë, but you know prophecies. You want to fight against one?’
Zoë grimaced, but I could tell Thalia had scored a point.
‘We must not delay,’ Chiron warned. ‘Today is Sunday. This very Friday,
December twenty-first, is the winter solstice.’
‘Oh, joy,’ Dionysus muttered. ‘Another dull annual meeting.’
‘Artemis must be present at the solstice,’ Zoë said. ‘She has been one of the
most vocal on the council arguing for action against Kronos’s minions. If she is
absent, the gods will decide nothing. We will lose another year of war
preparations.’
‘Are you suggesting that the gods have trouble acting together, young lady?’
Dionysus asked.
‘Yes, Lord Dionysus.’
Mr D nodded. ‘Just checking. You’re right, of course. Carry on.’
‘I must agree with Zoë,’said Chiron. ‘Artemis’s presence at the winter council
is critical. We have only a week to find her. And possibly even more important:
to locate the monster she was hunting. Now, we must decide who goes on this
quest.’
‘Three and two,’ I said.
Everybody looked at me. Even Thalia forgot to ignore me.
‘We’re supposed to have five,’ I said, feeling self-conscious. ‘Three Hunters,
two from Camp Half-Blood. That’s more than fair.’
Thalia and Zoë exchanged looks.
‘Well,’ Thalia said. ‘It does make sense.’
Zoë grunted. ‘I would prefer to take all the Hunters. We will need strength of
numbers.’
‘You’ll be retracing the goddess’s path,’ Chiron reminded her. ‘Moving
quickly. No doubt Artemis tracked the scent of this rare monster, whatever it is,
as she moved west. You will have to do the same. The prophecy was clear: The
bane of Olympus shows the trail. What would your mistress say? “Too many
Hunters spoil the scent.” A small group is best.’
Zoë picked up a ping-pong paddle and studied it like she was deciding who
she wanted to whack first. ‘This monster – the bane of Olympus. I have hunted
at Lady Artemis’s side for many years, yet I have no idea what this beast might
be.’
Everybody looked at Dionysus, I guess because he was the only god present
and gods are supposed to know things. He was flipping through a wine
magazine, but when everyone got silent he glanced up. ‘Well, don’t look at me.
I’m a young god, remember? I don’t keep track of all those ancient monsters and
dusty Titans. They make for terrible party conversation.’
‘Chiron,’ I said, ‘you don’t have any ideas about the monster?’
Chiron pursed his lips. ‘I have several ideas, none of them good. And none of
them quite make sense. Typhon, for instance, could fit this description. He was
truly a bane of Olympus. Or the sea monster Ketos. But if either of these were
stirring, we would know it. They are ocean monsters the size of skyscrapers.
Your father Poseidon would already have sounded the alarm. I fear this monster
may be more elusive. Perhaps even more powerful.’
‘That’s some serious danger you’re facing,’ Connor Stoll said. (I liked how he
said you and not we.) ‘It sounds like at least two of the five are going to die.’
‘One shall be lost in the land without rain,’ Beckendorf said. ‘If I were you,
I’d stay out of the desert.’
There was a muttering of agreement.
‘And the Titan’s curse must one withstand,’ Silena said. ‘What could that
mean?’
I saw Chiron and Zoë exchange a nervous look, but whatever they were
thinking, they didn’t share it.
‘One shall perish by a parent’s hand,’ Grover said in between bites of Cheez
Whiz and ping-pong balls. ‘How is that possible? Whose parent would kill
them?’
There was a heavy silence round the table.
I glanced at Thalia and wondered if she was thinking the same thing I was.
Years ago, Chiron had had a prophecy about the next child of the Big Three –
Zeus, Poseidon or Hades – who turned sixteen. Supposedly, that kid would make
a decision that would save or destroy the gods forever. Because of that, the Big
Three had taken an oath after World War II not to have any more kids. But
Thalia and I had been born anyway, and now we were both getting close to
sixteen.
I remembered a conversation I’d had last year with Annabeth. I’d asked her if
I was so potentially dangerous, why the gods didn’t just kill me.
Some of the gods would like to kill you, she’d said. But they’re afraid of
offending Poseidon.
Could an Olympian parent turn against his half-blood child? Would it
sometimes be easier just to let them die? If there were ever any half-bloods who
needed to worry about that, it was Thalia and me. I wondered if maybe I
should’ve sent Poseidon that seashell-pattern tie for Father’s Day after all.
‘There will be deaths,’ Chiron decided. ‘That much we know.’
‘Oh, goody!’ Dionysus said.
Everyone looked at him. He glanced up innocently from the pages of Wine
Connoisseur magazine. ‘Ah, Pinot Noir is making a comeback. Don’t mind me.’
‘Percy is right,’ Silena Beauregard said. ‘Two campers should go.’
‘Oh, I see,’ Zoë said sarcastically. ‘And I suppose you wish to volunteer?’
Silena blushed. ‘I’m not going anywhere with the Hunters. Don’t look at me!’
‘A daughter of Aphrodite does not wish to be looked at,’ Zoë scoffed. ‘What
would thy mother say?’
Silena started to get out of her chair, but the Stoll brothers pulled her back.
‘Stop it,’ Beckendorf said. He was a big guy with a bigger voice. He didn’t
talk much, but when he did people tended to listen. ‘Let’s start with the Hunters.
Which three of you will go?’
Zoë stood. ‘I shall go, of course, and I will take Phoebe. She is our best
tracker.’
‘The big girl who likes to hit people on the head?’ Travis Stoll asked
cautiously.
Zoë nodded.
‘The one who put the arrows in my helmet?’ Connor added.
‘Yes,’ Zoë snapped. ‘Why?’
‘Oh, nothing,’ Travis said. ‘Just we have a T-shirt for her from the camp store.’
He held up a big silver T-shirt that said ARTEMIS THE MOON GODDESS,
HUNTING TOUR 2002, with a huge list of national parks and stuff underneath.
‘It’s a collector’s item. She was admiring it. You want to give it to her?’
I knew the Stolls were up to something. They always were. But I guess Zoë
didn’t know them as well as I did. She just sighed and took the T-shirt. ‘As I was
saying, I will take Phoebe. And I wish Bianca to go.’
Bianca looked stunned. ‘Me? But… I’m so new. I wouldn’t be any good.’
‘You will do fine,’ Zoë insisted. ‘There is no better way to prove thyself.’
Bianca closed her mouth. I felt kind of sorry for her. I remembered my first
quest when I was twelve. I had felt totally unprepared. A little honoured, maybe,
but a lot resentful and plenty scared. I figured the same things were running
around in Bianca’s head right now.
‘And for campers?’ Chiron asked. His eyes met mine, but I couldn’t tell what
he was thinking.
‘Me!’ Grover stood up so fast he bumped the ping-pong table. He brushed
cracker crumbs and ping-pong ball scraps off his lap. ‘Anything to help
Artemis!’
Zoë wrinkled her nose. ‘I think not, satyr. You are not even a half-blood.’
‘But he is a camper,’ Thalia said. ‘And he’s got a satyr’s senses and woodland
magic. Can you play a tracker’s song yet, Grover?’
‘Absolutely!’
Zoë wavered. I didn’t know what a tracker’s song was, but apparently Zoë
thought it was a good thing.
‘Very well,’ Zoë said. ‘And the second camper?’
‘I’ll go.’ Thalia stood and looked around, daring anyone to question her.
Now, okay, maybe my maths skills weren’t the best. But it suddenly occurred
to me that we’d reached the number five, and I wasn’t in the group.
‘Whoa, wait a sec,’ I said. ‘I want to go, too.’
Thalia said nothing. Chiron was still studying me, his eyes sad.
‘Oh,’ Grover said, suddenly aware of the problem. ‘Whoa, yeah, I forgot!
Percy has to go. I didn’t mean… I’ll stay. Percy should go in my place.’
‘He cannot,’ Zoë said. ‘He is a boy. I won’t have Hunters travelling with a
boy.’
‘You travelled here with me,’ I reminded her.
‘That was a short-term emergency, and it was ordered by the goddess. I will
not go across country and fight many dangers in the company of a boy.’
‘What about Grover?’ I demanded.
Zoë shook her head. ‘He does not count. He’s a satyr. He is not technically a
boy.’
‘Hey!’ Grover protested.
‘I have to go,’ I said. ‘I need to be on this quest.’
‘Why?’ Zoë asked. ‘Because of thy friend Annabeth?’
I felt myself blushing. I hated that everyone was looking at me. ‘No! I mean,
partly. I just feel like I’m supposed to go!’
Nobody rose to my defence. Mr D looked bored, still reading his magazine.
Silena, the Stoll brothers and Beckendorf were staring at the table. Bianca gave
me a look of pity.
‘No,’ Zoë said flatly. ‘I insist upon this. I will take a satyr if I must, but not a
male hero.’
Chiron sighed. ‘The quest is for Artemis. The Hunters should be allowed to
approve their companions.’
My ears were ringing as I sat down. I knew Grover and some of the others
were looking at me sympathetically, but I couldn’t meet their eyes. I just sat
there as Chiron concluded the council.
‘So be it,’ he said. ‘Thalia and Grover will accompany Zoë, Bianca and
Phoebe. You shall leave at first light. And may the gods –’ he glanced at
Dionysus – ‘present company included, we hope – be with you.’
I didn’t show up for dinner that night, which was a mistake, because Chiron and
Grover came looking for me.
‘Percy, I’m so sorry!’ Grover said, sitting next to me on the bunk. ‘I didn’t
know they’d – that you’d – Honest!’
He started to sniffle, and I figured if I didn’t cheer him up he’d either start
bawling or chewing up my mattress. He tends to eat inanimate objects whenever
he gets upset.
‘It’s okay,’ I lied. ‘Really. It’s fine.’
Grover’s lower lip trembled. ‘I wasn’t even thinking… I was so focused on
helping Artemis. But, I promise, I’ll look everywhere for Annabeth. If I can find
her, I will.’
I nodded and tried to ignore the big crater that was opening in my chest.
‘Grover,’ Chiron said, ‘perhaps you’d let me have a word with Percy?’
‘Sure,’ he sniffled.
Chiron waited.
‘Oh,’ Grover said. ‘You mean alone. Sure, Chiron,’ He looked at me
miserably. ‘See? Nobody needs a goat.’
He trotted out the door, blowing his nose on his sleeve.
Chiron sighed and knelt on his horse legs. ‘Percy, I don’t pretend to
understand prophecies.’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Well, maybe that’s because they don’t make any sense.’
Chiron gazed at the saltwater spring gurgling in the corner of the room.
‘Thalia would not have been my first choice to go on this quest. She’s too
impetuous. She acts without thinking. She is too sure of herself.’
‘Would you have chosen me?’
‘Frankly, no,’ he said. ‘You and Thalia are much alike.’
‘Thanks a lot.’
He smiled. ‘The difference is that you are less sure of yourself than Thalia.
That could be good or bad. But one thing I can say: both of you together would
be a dangerous thing.’
‘We could handle it.’
‘The way you handled it at the creek tonight?’
I didn’t answer. He’d nailed me.
‘Perhaps it is for the best,’ Chiron mused. ‘You can go home to your mother
for the holidays. If we need you, we can call.’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Maybe.’
I pulled Riptide out of my pocket and set in on my nightstand. It didn’t seem
that I’d be using it for anything but writing Christmas cards.
When he saw the pen, Chiron grimaced. ‘It’s no wonder Zoë doesn’t want you
along, I suppose. Not while you’re carrying that particular weapon.’
I didn’t understand what he meant. Then I remembered something he’d told
me a long time ago, when he first gave me the magic sword: It has a long and
tragic history, which we need not go into.
I wanted to ask him about that, but then he pulled a golden drachma from his
saddlebag and tossed it to me. ‘Call your mother, Percy. Let her know you’re
coming home in the morning. And, ah, for what it’s worth… I almost
volunteered for this quest myself. I would have gone, if not for the last line.’
‘One shall perish by a parent’s hand. Yeah.’
I didn’t need to ask. I knew Chiron’s dad was Kronos, the evil Titan Lord
himself. The line would make perfect sense if Chiron went on the quest. Kronos
didn’t care for anyone, including his own children.
‘Chiron,’ I said. ‘You know what this Titan’s curse is, don’t you?’
His face darkened. He made a claw over his heart and pushed outwards – an
ancient gesture for warding off evil. ‘Let us hope the prophecy does not mean
what I think. Now, goodnight, Percy. And your time will come. I’m convinced of
that. There’s no need to rush.’
He said your time the way people did when they meant your death. I didn’t
know if Chiron meant it that way, but the look in his eyes made me scared to ask.
I stood at the saltwater spring, rubbing Chiron’s coin in my hand and trying to
figure out what to say to my mom. I really wasn’t in the mood to have one more
adult tell me that doing nothing was the greatest thing I could do, but I figured
my mom deserved an update.
Finally, I took a deep breath and threw in the coin. ‘O goddess, accept my
offering.’
The mist shimmered. The light from the bathroom was just enough to make a
faint rainbow.
‘Show me Sally Jackson,’ I said. ‘Upper East Side, Manhattan.’
And there in the mist was a scene I did not expect. My mom was sitting at our
kitchen table with some… guy. They were laughing hysterically. There was a big
stack of textbooks between them. The man was, I don’t know, thirty-something,
with longish salt-and-pepper hair and a brown jacket over a black T-shirt. He
looked like an actor – like a guy who might play an undercover cop on
television.
I was too stunned to say anything, and, fortunately, my mom and the guy were
too busy laughing to notice my Iris-message.
The guy said, ‘Sally, you’re a riot. You want some more wine?’
‘Ah, I shouldn’t. You go ahead if you want.’
‘Actually, I’d better use your bathroom. May I?’
‘Down the hall,’she said, trying not to laugh.
The actor dude smiled and got up and left.
‘Mom!’ I said.
She jumped so hard she almost knocked her textbooks off the table. Finally
she focused on me. ‘Percy! Oh, honey! Is everything okay?’
‘What are you doing?’ I demanded.
She blinked. ‘Homework.’ Then she seemed to understand the look on my
face. ‘Oh, honey, that’s just Paul – um, Mr Blofis. He’s in my writing seminar.’
‘Mr Blowfish?’
‘Blofis. He’ll be back in a minute, Percy. Tell me what’s wrong.’
She always knew when something was wrong. I told her about Annabeth. The
other stuff, too, but mostly it boiled down to Annabeth.
My mother’s eyes teared up. I could tell she was trying hard to keep it
together for my sake. ‘Oh, Percy…’
‘Yeah. So they tell me there’s nothing I can do. I guess I’ll be coming home.’
She turned her pencil round in her fingers. ‘Percy, as much as I want you to
come home –’she sighed like she was mad at herself – ‘as much as I want you to
be safe, I want you to understand something. You need to do whatever you think
you have to.’
I stared at her. ‘What do you mean?’
‘I mean, do you really, deep down, believe that you have to help save her? Do
you think it’s the right thing to do? Because I know one thing about you, Percy.
Your heart is always in the right place. Listen to it.’
‘You’re… you’re telling me to go?’
My mother pursed her lips. ‘I’m telling you that… you’re getting too old for
me to tell you what to do. I’m telling you that I’ll support you, even if what you
decide to do is dangerous. I can’t believe I’m saying this.’
‘Mom –’
The toilet flushed down the hall in our apartment.
‘I don’t have much time,’ my mom said. ‘Percy, whatever you decide, I love
you. And I know you’ll do what’s best for Annabeth.’
‘How can you be sure?’
‘Because she’d do the same for you.’
And, with that, my mother waved her hand over the mist, and the connection
dissolved, leaving me with one final image of her new friend Mr Blowfish
smiling down at her.
I don’t remember falling asleep, but I remember the dream.
I was back in that barren cave, the ceiling heavy and low above me. Annabeth
was kneeling under the weight of a dark mass like a pile of boulders. She was
too tired even to cry out. Her legs trembled. Any second, I knew she would run
out of strength and the cavern ceiling would collapse on top of her.
‘How is our mortal guest?’ a male voice boomed.
It wasn’t Kronos. Kronos’s voice was raspy and metallic, like a knife scraped
across stone. I’d heard it taunting me many times before in my dreams. This
voice was deeper and lower, like a bass guitar. Its force made the ground vibrate.
Luke emerged from the shadows. He ran to Annabeth, knelt beside her, then
looked back at the unseen man. ‘She’s fading. We must hurry.’
The hypocrite. Like he really cared what happened to her.
The deep voice chuckled. It belonged to someone in the shadows, at the edge
of my dream. Then a meaty hand thrust someone forward into the light –
Artemis – her hands and feet bound in celestial bronze chains.
I gasped. Her silvery dress was torn and tattered. Her face and arms were cut
in several places, and she was bleeding ichor, the golden blood of the gods.
‘You heard the boy,’said the man in the shadows. ‘Decide!’
Artemis’s eyes flashed with anger. I didn’t know why she just didn’t will the
chains to burst, or make herself disappear, but she didn’t seem able to. Maybe
the chains prevented her, or some magic about this dark, horrible place.
The goddess looked at Annabeth, and her expression changed to concern and
outrage. ‘How dare you torture a maiden like this!’
‘She will die soon,’ Luke said. ‘You can save her.’
Annabeth made a weak sound of protest. My heart felt like it was being
twisted into a knot. I wanted to run to her, but I couldn’t move.
‘Free my hands,’ Artemis said.
Luke brought out his sword, Backbiter. With one expert strike, he broke the
goddess’s handcuffs.
Artemis ran to Annabeth and took the burden from her shoulders. Annabeth
collapsed on the ground and lay there shivering. Artemis staggered, trying to
support the weight of the black rocks.
The man in the shadows chuckled. ‘You are as predictable as you were easy to
beat, Artemis.’
‘You surprised me,’ the goddess said, straining under her burden. ‘It will not
happen again.’
‘Indeed it will not,’ the man said. ‘Now you are out of the way for good! I
knew you could not resist helping a young maiden. That is, after all, your
speciality, my dear.’
Artemis groaned. ‘You know nothing of mercy, you swine.’
‘On that,’ the man said, ‘we can agree. Luke, you may kill the girl now.’
‘No!’ Artemis shouted.
Luke hesitated. ‘She – she may yet be useful, sir. Further bait.’
‘Bah! You truly believe that?’
‘Yes, General. They will come for her. I’m sure.’
The man considered. ‘Then the dracaenae can guard her here. Assuming she
does not die from her injuries, you may keep her alive until winter solstice. After
that, if our sacrifice goes as planned, her life will be meaningless. The lives of
all mortals will be meaningless.’
Luke gathered up Annabeth’s listless body and carried her away from the
goddess.
‘You will never find the monster you seek,’ Artemis said. ‘Your plan will fail.’
‘How little you know, my young goddess,’ the man in the shadows said. ‘Even
now, your darling attendants begin their quest to find you. They shall play
directly into my hands. Now, if you’ll excuse us, we have a long journey to
make. We must greet your Hunters and make sure their quest is… challenging.’
The man’s laughter echoed in the darkness, shaking the ground until it seemed
the whole cavern ceiling would collapse.
I woke with a start. I was sure I’d heard a loud banging.
I looked around the cabin. It was dark outside. The salt spring still gurgled. No
other sounds but the hoot of an owl in the woods and the distant surf on the
beach. In the moonlight, on my nightstand, was Annabeth’s New York Yankees
cap. I stared at it for a second, and then: BANG. BANG.
Someone, or something, was pounding on my door.
I grabbed Riptide and got out of bed.
‘Hello?’ I called.
THUMP. THUMP.
I crept to the door.
I uncapped the blade, flung open the door, and found myself face to face with
a black pegasus.
Whoa, boss! Its voice spoke in my mind as it clopped away from the sword
blade. I don’t wanna be a horse-ke-bob!
Its black wings spread in alarm, and the wind buffeted me back a step.
‘Blackjack,’ I said, relieved but a little irritated. ‘It’s the middle of the night!’
Blackjack huffed. Ain’t either, boss. It’s five in the morning. What you still
sleeping for?
‘How many times have I told you? Don’t call me boss.’
Whatever you say, boss. You’re the man. You’re my number one.
I rubbed the sleep out of my eyes and tried not to let the pegasus read my
thoughts. That’s the problem with being Poseidon’s son: since he created horses
out of sea foam, I can understand most equestrian animals, but they can
understand me, too. Sometimes, like in Blackjack’s case, they kind of adopt me.
See, Blackjack had been a captive on board Luke’s ship last summer, until
we’d caused a little distraction that allowed him to escape. I’d really had very
little to do with it, seriously, but Blackjack credited me with saving him.
‘Blackjack,’ I said, ‘you’re supposed to stay in the stables.’
Meh, the stables. You see Chiron staying in the stables?
‘Well… no.’
Exactly. Listen, we got another little sea friend needs your help.
‘Again?’
Yeah. I told the hippocampi I’d come get you.
I groaned. Anytime I was anywhere near the beach, the hippocampi would ask
me to help them with their problems. And they had a lot of problems. Beached
whales, porpoises caught in fishing nets, mermaids with hangnails – they’d call
me to come underwater and help.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘I’m coming.’
You’re the best, boss.
‘And don’t call me boss!’
Blackjack whinnied softly. It might’ve been a laugh.
I looked back at my comfortable bed. My bronze shield still hung on the wall,
dented and unusable. And on my nightstand was Annabeth’s magic Yankees cap.
On an impulse, I stuck the cap in my pocket. I guess I had a feeling, even then,
that I wasn’t coming back to my cabin for a long, long time.