CHAPTER 17: We Shop for Waterbeds
It was Annabeth’s idea.
She loaded us into the back of a Vegas taxi as if we actually had money, and
told the driver, ‘Los Angeles, please.’
The cabbie chewed his cigar and sized us up. ‘That’s three hundred miles. For
that, you gotta pay up front.’
‘You accept casino debit cards?’ Annabeth asked.
He shrugged. ‘Some of’ em. Same as credit cards. I gotta swipe ’em through,
first.’
Annabeth handed him her green LotusCash card.
He looked at it sceptically.
‘Swipe it,’ Annabeth invited.
He did.
His meter machine started rattling. The lights flashed. Finally an infinity
symbol came up next to the dollar sign.
The cigar fell out of the driver’s mouth. He looked back at us, his eyes wide.
‘Where to in Los Angeles… uh, Your Highness?’
‘The Santa Monica pier.’ Annabeth sat up a little straighter. I could tell she
liked the ‘Your Highness’ thing. ‘Get us there fast, and you can keep the
change.’
Maybe she shouldn’t have told him that.
The cab’s speedometer never dipped below ninety-five the whole way through
the Mojave Desert.
On the road, we had plenty of time to talk. I told Annabeth and Grover about my
latest dream, but the details got sketchier the more I tried to remember them. The
Lotus Casino seemed to have short-circuited my memory. I couldn’t recall what
the invisible servant’s voice had sounded like, though I was sure it was
somebody I knew. The servant had called the monster in the pit something other
than ‘my lord’… some special name or title…
‘The Silent One?’ Annabeth suggested. ‘The Rich One? Both of those are
nicknames for Hades.’
‘Maybe…’ I said, though neither sounded quite right.
‘That throne room sounds like Hades’s,’ Grover said. ‘That’s the way it’s
usually described.’
I shook my head. ‘Something’s wrong. The throne room wasn’t the main part
of the dream. And that voice from the pit… I don’t know. It just didn’t feel like a
god’s voice.’
Annabeth’s eyes widened.
‘What?’ I asked.
‘Oh… nothing. I was just – No, it has to be Hades. Maybe he sent this thief,
this invisible person, to get the master bolt, and something went wrong –’
‘Like what?’
‘I – I don’t know,’ she said. ‘But if he stole Zeus’s symbol of power from
Olympus, and the gods were hunting him, I mean, a lot of things could go
wrong. So this thief had to hide the bolt, or he lost it somehow. Anyway, he
failed to bring it to Hades. That’s what the voice said in your dream, right? The
guy failed. That would explain what the Furies were searching for when they
came after us on the bus. Maybe they thought we had retrieved the bolt.’
I wasn’t sure what was wrong with her. She looked pale.
‘But if I’d already retrieved the bolt,’ I said, ‘why would I be travelling to the
Underworld?’
‘To threaten Hades,’ Grover suggested. ‘To bribe or blackmail him into getting
your mom back.’
I whistled. ‘You have evil thoughts for a goat.’
‘Why, thank you.’
‘But the thing in the pit said it was waiting for two items,’ I said. ‘If the master
bolt is one, what’s the other?’
Grover shook his head, clearly mystified.
Annabeth was looking at me as if she knew my next question, and was silently
willing me not to ask it.
‘You have an idea what might be in that pit, don’t you?’ I asked her. ‘I mean,
if it isn’t Hades?’
‘Percy… let’s not talk about it. Because if it isn’t Hades… No. It has to be
Hades.’
Wasteland rolled by. We passed a sign that said: CALIFORNIA STATE LINE,
12 MILES.
I got the feeling I was missing one simple, critical piece of information. It was
like when I stared at a common word I should know, but I couldn’t make sense
of it because one or two letters were floating around. The more I thought about
my quest, the more I was sure that confronting Hades wasn’t the real answer.
There was something else going on, something even more dangerous.
The problem was: we were hurtling towards the Underworld at ninety-five
miles an hour, betting that Hades had the master bolt. If we got there and found
out we were wrong, we wouldn’t have time to correct ourselves. The solstice
deadline would pass and war would begin.
‘The answer is in the Underworld,’ Annabeth assured me. ‘You saw spirits of
the dead, Percy. There’s only one place that could be. We’re doing the right
thing.’
She tried to boost our morale by suggesting clever strategies for getting into
the Land of the Dead, but my heart wasn’t in it. There were just too many
unknown factors. It was like cramming for a test without knowing the subject.
And believe me, I’d done that enough times.
The cab sped west. Every gust of wind through Death Valley sounded like a
spirit of the dead. Every time the brakes hissed on an eighteen-wheeler, it
reminded me of Echidna’s reptilian voice.
At sunset, the taxi dropped us at the beach in Santa Monica. It looked exactly the
way L.A. beaches do in the movies, only it smelled worse. There were carnival
rides lining the pier, palm trees lining the sidewalks, homeless guys sleeping in
the sand dunes and surfer dudes waiting for the perfect wave.
Grover, Annabeth and I walked down to the edge of the surf.
‘What now?’ Annabeth asked.
The Pacific was turning gold in the setting sun. I thought about how long it
had been since I’d stood on the beach at Montauk, on the opposite side of the
country, looking out at a different sea.
How could there be a god who could control all that? What did my science
teacher used to say – two-thirds of the earth’s surface was covered in water?
How could I be the son of someone that powerful?
I stepped into the surf.
‘Percy?’ Annabeth said. ‘What are you doing?’
I kept walking, up to my waist, then my chest.
She called after me, ‘You know how polluted that water is? There’re all kinds
of toxic –’
That’s when my head went under.
I held my breath at first. It’s difficult to intentionally inhale water. Finally I
couldn’t stand it any more. I gasped. Sure enough, I could breathe normally.
I walked down into the shoals. I shouldn’t have been able to see through the
murk, but somehow I could tell where everything was. I could sense the rolling
texture of the bottom. I could make out sand-dollar colonies dotting the
sandbars. I could even see the currents, warm and cold streams swirling together.
I felt something rub against my leg. I looked down and almost shot out of the
water like a ballistic missile. Sliding along beside me was a two-metre-long
mako shark.
But the thing wasn’t attacking. It was nuzzling me. Heeling like a dog.
Tentatively, I touched its dorsal fin. It bucked a little, as if inviting me to hold
tighter. I grabbed the fin with both hands. It took off, pulling me along. The
shark carried me down into the darkness. It deposited me at the edge of the
ocean proper, where the sand bank dropped off into a huge chasm. It was like
standing on the rim of the Grand Canyon at midnight, not being able to see
much, but knowing the void was right there.
The surface shimmered maybe fifty metres above. I knew I should’ve been
crushed by the pressure. Then again, I shouldn’t have been able to breathe. I
wondered if there was a limit to how deep I could go, if I could sink straight to
the bottom of the Pacific.
Then I saw something glimmering in the darkness below, growing bigger and
brighter as it rose towards me. A woman’s voice, like my mother’s, called:
‘Percy Jackson.’
As she got closer, her shape became clearer. She had flowing black hair, a
dress made of green silk. Light flickered around her, and her eyes were so
distractingly beautiful I hardly noticed the stallion-sized sea horse she was
riding.
She dismounted. The sea horse and the mako shark whisked off and started
playing something that looked like tag. The underwater lady smiled at me.
‘You’ve come far, Percy Jackson. Well done.’
I wasn’t quite sure what to do, so I bowed. ‘You’re the woman who spoke to
me in the Mississippi River.’
‘Yes, child. I am a Nereid, a spirit of the sea. It was not easy to appear so far
upriver, but the naiads, my freshwater cousins, helped sustain my life force.
They honour Lord Poseidon, though they do not serve in his court.’
‘And… you serve in Poseidon’s court?’
She nodded. ‘It has been many years since a child of the Sea God has been
born. We have watched you with great interest.’
Suddenly I remembered faces in the waves off Montauk Beach when I was a
little boy, reflections of smiling women. Like so many of the weird things in my
life, I’d never given it much thought before.
‘If my father is so interested in me,’ I said, ‘why isn’t he here? Why doesn’t he
speak to me?’
A cold current rose out of the depths.
‘Do not judge the Lord of the Sea too harshly,’ the Nereid told me. ‘He stands
at the brink of an unwanted war. He has much to occupy his time. Besides, he is
forbidden to help you directly. The gods may not show such favouritism.’
‘Even to their own children?’
‘Especially to them. The gods can work by indirect influence only. That is
why I give you a warning, and a gift.’
She held out her hand. Three white pearls flashed in her palm.
‘I know you journey to Hades’s realm,’ she said. ‘Few mortals have ever done
this and survived: Orpheus, who had great musical skill; Hercules, who had great
strength; Houdini, who could escape even the depths of Tartarus. Do you have
these talents?’
‘Um… no, ma’am.’
‘Ah, but you have something else, Percy. You have gifts you have only begun
to know. The oracles have foretold a great and terrible future for you, should you
survive to manhood. Poseidon would not have you die before your time.
Therefore take these, and when you are in need, smash a pearl at your feet.’
‘What will happen?’
‘That,’ she said, ‘depends on the need. But remember: what belongs to the sea
will always return to the sea.’
‘What about the warning?’
Her eyes flickered with green light. ‘Go with what your heart tells you, or you
will lose all. Hades feeds on doubt and hopelessness. He will trick you if he can,
make you mistrust your own judgement. Once you are in his realm, he will never
willingly let you leave. Keep faith. Good luck, Percy Jackson.’
She summoned her sea horse and rode towards the void.
‘Wait!’ I called. ‘At the river, you said not to trust the gifts. What gifts?’
‘Goodbye, young hero,’she called back, her voice fading into the depths. ‘You
must listen to your heart.’ She became a speck of glowing green, and then she
was gone.
I wanted to follow her down into the darkness. I wanted to see the court of
Poseidon. But I looked up at the sunset darkening on the surface. My friends
were waiting. We had so little time…
I kicked upwards towards the shore.
When I reached the beach, I told Grover and Annabeth what had happened,
and showed them the pearls.
Annabeth grimaced. ‘No gift comes without a price.’
‘They were free.’
‘No.’ She shook her head. ‘“There is no such thing as a free lunch.” That’s an
ancient Greek saying that translated pretty well into American. There will be a
price. You wait.’
On that happy thought, we turned our backs on the sea.
With some spare change from Ares’s backpack, we took the bus into West
Hollywood. I showed the driver the Underworld address slip I’d taken from
Aunty Em’s Garden Gnome Emporium, but he’d never heard of DOA Recording
Studios.
‘You remind me of somebody I saw on TV’, he told me. ‘You a child actor or
something?’
‘Uh… I’m a stunt double… for a lot of child actors.’
‘Oh! That explains it.’
We thanked him and got off quickly at the next stop.
We wandered for miles on foot, looking for DOA. Nobody seemed to know
where it was. It didn’t appear in the phone book.
Twice, we ducked into alleys to avoid cop cars.
I froze in front of an appliance store window because a television was playing
an interview with somebody who looked very familiar – my stepdad, Smelly
Gabe. He was talking to Barbara Walters – I mean, as if he were some kind of
huge celebrity. She was interviewing him in our apartment, in the middle of a
poker game, and there was a young blonde lady sitting next to him, patting his
hand.
A fake tear glistened on his cheek. He was saying, ‘Honest, Ms Walters, if it
wasn’t for Sugar here, my grief counsellor. I’d be a wreck. My stepson took
everything I cared about. My wife… my Camaro… I – I’m sorry. I have trouble
talking about it.’
‘There you have it, America.’ Barbara Walters turned to the camera. ‘A man
torn apart. An adolescent boy with serious issues. Let me show you, again, the
last known photo of this troubled young fugitive, taken a week ago in Denver.’
The screen cut to a grainy shot of me, Annabeth and Grover standing outside
the Colorado diner, talking to Ares.
‘Who are the other children in this photo?’ Barbara Walters asked
dramatically. ‘Who is the man with them? Is Percy Jackson a delinquent, a
terrorist, or perhaps the brainwashed victim of a frightening new cult? When we
come back, we chat with a leading child psychologist. Stay tuned, America.’
‘C’mon,’ Grover told me. He hauled me away before I could punch a hole in
the appliance-store window.
It got dark, and hungry-looking characters started coming out on the streets to
play. Now, don’t get me wrong. I’m a New Yorker. I don’t scare easy. But L.A.
had a totally different feel from New York. Back home, everything seemed close.
It didn’t matter how big the city was, you could get anywhere without getting
lost. The street pattern and the subway made sense. There was a system to how
things worked. A kid could be safe as long as he wasn’t stupid.
L.A. wasn’t like that. It was spread out, chaotic, hard to move around. It
reminded me of Ares. It wasn’t enough for L.A. to be big; it had to prove it was
big by being loud and strange and difficult to navigate, too. I didn’t know how
we were ever going to find the entrance to the Underworld by tomorrow, the
summer solstice.
We walked past gangbangers, bums and street hawkers, who looked at us like
they were trying to figure if we were worth the trouble of mugging.
As we hurried passed the entrance of an alley, a voice from the darkness said,
‘Hey, you.’
Like an idiot, I stopped.
Before I knew it, we were surrounded. A gang of kids had circled us. Six of
them in all – white kids with expensive clothes and mean faces. Like the kids at
Yancy Academy: rich brats playing at being bad boys.
Instinctively, I uncapped Riptide.
When the sword appeared out of nowhere, the kids backed off, but their leader
was either really stupid or really brave, because he kept coming at me with a
switchblade.
I made the mistake of swinging.
The kid yelped. But he must’ve been one hundred percent mortal, because the
blade passed harmlessly right through his chest. He looked down. ‘What the…’
I figured I had about three seconds before his shock turned to anger. ‘Run!’ I
screamed at Annabeth and Grover.
We pushed two kids out of the way and raced down the street, not knowing
where we were going. We turned a sharp corner.
‘There!’ Annabeth shouted.
Only one store on the block looked open, its windows glaring with neon. The
sign above the door said something like: CRSTUY’S WATREBDE ALPACE.
‘Crusty’s Waterbed Palace?’ Grover translated.
It didn’t sound like a place I’d ever go except in an emergency, but this
definitely qualified.
We burst through the doors, ran behind a waterbed, and ducked. A split second
later, the gang kids ran past outside.
‘I think we lost them,’ Grover panted.
A voice behind us boomed, ‘Lost who?’
We all jumped.
Standing behind us was a guy who looked like a raptor in a leisure suit. He
was at least two metres tall, with absolutely no hair. He had grey leathery skin,
thick-lidded eyes, and a cold reptilian smile. He moved towards us slowly, but I
got the feeling he could move fast if he needed to.
His suit might’ve come from the Lotus Casino. It belonged back in the
seventies, big time. The shirt was silk paisley, unbuttoned halfway down his
hairless chest. The lapels on his velvet jacket were as wide as landing strips. The
silver chains around his neck – I couldn’t even count them.
‘I’m Crusty,’ he said, with a tartar-yellow smile.
I resisted the urge to say, Yes, you are.
‘Sorry to barge in,’ I told him. ‘We were just, um, browsing.’
‘You mean hiding from those no-good kids,’ he grumbled. ‘They hang around
every night. I get a lot of people in here, thanks to them. Say, you want to look at
a waterbed?’
I was about to say No, thanks, when he put a huge paw on my shoulder and
steered me deeper into the showroom.
There was every kind of waterbed you could imagine: different kinds of wood,
different patterns of sheets; queen-size, king-size, emperor-of-the-universe-size.
‘This is my most popular model.’ Crusty spread his hands proudly over a bed
covered with black satin sheets, with built-in Lava Lamps on the headboard. The
mattress vibrated, so it looked like oil-flavoured jelly.
‘Million-hand massage,’ Crusty told us. ‘Go on, try it out. Shoot, take a nap. I
don’t care. No business today, anyway.’
‘Um,’ I said, ‘I don’t think…’
‘Million-hand massage!’ Grover cried, and dived in. ‘Oh, you guys! This is
cool.’
‘Hmm,’ Crusty said, stroking his leathery chin. Almost, almost.’
‘Almost what?’ I asked.
He looked at Annabeth. ‘Do me a favour and try this one over here, honey.
Might fit.’
Annabeth said, ‘But what –’
He patted her reassuringly on the shoulder and led her over to the Safari
Deluxe model with teakwood lions carved into the frame and a leopard-patterned
bedspread. When Annabeth didn’t want to lie down, Crusty pushed her.
‘Hey!’she protested.
Crusty snapped his fingers. ‘Ergo!’
Ropes sprang from the sides of the bed, lashing around Annabeth, holding her
to the mattress.
Grover tried to get up, but ropes sprang from his black-satin bed, too, and
lashed him down.
‘Not cool!’ he yelled, his voice vibrating from the million-hand massage. ‘Not
cool at all!’
The giant looked at Annabeth, then turned towards me and grinned. ‘Almost,
darn it.’
I tried to step away, but his hand shot out and clamped around the back of my
neck. ‘Whoa, kid. Don’t worry. We’ll find you one in a sec.’
‘Let my friends go.’
‘Oh, sure I will. But I got to make them fit, first.’
‘What do you mean?’
‘All the beds are exactly six feet, see? Your friends are too short. Got to make
them fit.’
Annabeth and Grover kept struggling.
‘Can’t stand imperfect measurements,’ Crusty muttered. ‘Ergo!’
A new set of ropes leaped out from the top and bottom of the beds, wrapping
around Grover and Annabeth’s ankles, then around their armpits. The ropes
started tightening, pulling my friends from both ends.
‘Don’t worry,’ Crusty told me. ‘These are stretching jobs. Maybe eight extra
centimetres on their spines. They might even live. Now why don’t we find a bed
you like, huh?’
‘Percy!’ Grover yelled.
My mind was racing. I knew I couldn’t take on this giant waterbed salesman
alone. He would snap my neck before I ever got my sword out.
‘Your real name’s not Crusty, is it?’ I asked.
‘Legally, it’s Procrustes,’ he admitted.
‘The Stretcher,’ I said. I remembered the story: the giant who’d tried to kill
Theseus with over-hospitality on his way to Athens.
‘Yeah,’ the salesman said. ‘But who can pronounce “Procrustes”? Bad for
business. Now “Crusty”, anybody can say that.’
‘You’re right. It’s got a good ring to it.’
His eyes lit up. ‘You think so?’
‘Oh, absolutely,’ I said. ‘And the workmanship on these beds? Fabulous!’
He grinned hugely, but his fingers didn’t loosen on my neck. ‘I tell my
customers that. Every time. Nobody bothers to look at the workmanship. How
many built-in Lava Lamp headboards have you seen?’
‘Not too many.’
‘That’s right!’
‘Percy!’ Annabeth yelled. ‘What are you doing?’
‘Don’t mind her,’ I told Procrustes. ‘She’s impossible.’
The giant laughed. ‘All my customers are. Never six feet exactly. So
inconsiderate. And then they complain about the fitting.’
‘What do you do if they’re longer than six feet?’
‘Oh, that happens all the time. It’s a simple fix.’
He let go of my neck, but before I could react, he reached behind a nearby
sales desk and brought out a huge double-bladed brass axe. He said, ‘I just centre
the subject as best I can and lop off whatever hangs over on either end.’
‘Ah,’ I said, swallowing hard. ‘Sensible.’
‘I’m so glad to come across an intelligent customer!’
The ropes were really stretching my friends now. Annabeth was turning pale.
Grover made gurgling sounds like a strangled goose.
‘So, Crusty…’ I said, trying to keep my voice light. I glanced at the sales tag
on the valentine-shaped Honeymoon Special. ‘Does this one really have
dynamic stabilizers to stop wave motion?’
‘Absolutely. Try it out.’
‘Yeah, maybe I will. But would it work even for a big guy like you? No waves
at all?’
‘Guaranteed.’
‘No way.’
‘Way.’
‘Show me.’
He sat down eagerly on the bed, patted the mattress. ‘No waves. See?’
I snapped my fingers. ‘Ergo.’
Ropes lashed around Crusty and flattened him against the mattress.
‘Hey!’ he yelled.
‘Centre him just right,’ I said.
The ropes readjusted themselves at my command. Crusty’s whole head stuck
out the top. His feet stuck out the bottom.
‘No!’ he said. ‘Wait! This is just a demo.’
I uncapped Riptide. ‘A few simple adjustments…’
I had no qualms about what I was about to do. If Crusty were human, I
couldn’t hurt him anyway. If he was a monster, he deserved to turn into dust for
a while.
‘You drive a hard bargain,’ he told me. ‘I’ll give you thirty percent off on
selected floor models!’
‘I think I’ll start with the top.’ I raised my sword.
‘No money down! No interest for six months!’
I swung the sword. Crusty stopped making offers.
I cut the ropes on the other beds. Annabeth and Grover got to their feet,
groaning and wincing and cursing me a lot.
‘You look taller,’ I said.
‘Very funny,’ Annabeth said. ‘Be faster next time.’
I looked at the bulletin board behind Crusty’s sales desk. There was an
advertisement for Hermes Delivery Service, and another for the All-New
Compendium of L.A. Area Monsters – ‘The only Monstrous Yellow Pages
you’ll ever need!’ Under that, a bright orange flier for DOA Recording Studios,
offering commissions for heroes’ souls. ‘We are always looking for new talent!’
DOA’s address was right underneath with a map.
‘Come on,’ I told my friends.
‘Give us a minute,’ Grover complained. ‘We were almost stretched to death!’
‘Then you’re ready for the Underworld,’ I said. ‘It’s only a block from here.’