CHAPTER 7: Tyson Leads a Jailbreak
The good news: the left tunnel was straight with no side exits, twists or turns.
The bad news: it was a dead end. After sprinting a hundred metres, we ran into
an enormous boulder that completely blocked our path. Behind us, the sounds of
dragging footsteps and heavy breathing echoed down the corridor. Something –
definitely not human – was on our trail.
‘Tyson,’ I said, ‘can you –’
‘Yes!’ He slammed his shoulder against the rock so hard the whole tunnel
shook. Dust trickled from the stone ceiling.
‘Hurry!’ Grover said. ‘Don’t bring the roof down, but hurry!’
The boulder finally gave way with a horrible grinding noise. Tyson pushed it
into a small room, and we dashed through behind it.
‘Close the entrance!’ Annabeth said.
We all got on the other side of the boulder and pushed. Whatever was chasing
us wailed in frustration as we heaved the rock back into place and sealed the
corridor.
‘We trapped it,’ I said.
‘Or trapped ourselves,’ Grover said.
I turned. We were in a six-metre-square cement room, and the opposite wall
was covered with metal bars. We’d tunnelled straight into a cell.
‘What in Hades?’ Annabeth tugged on the bars. They didn’t budge. Through the
bars we could see rows of cells in a ring around a dark courtyard – at least three
stories of metal doors and metal catwalks.
‘A prison,’ I said. ‘Maybe Tyson can break –’
‘Shh,’said Grover. ‘Listen.’
Somewhere above us, deep sobbing echoed through the building. There was
another sound, too – a raspy voice muttering something that I couldn’t make out.
The words were strange, like rocks in a tumbler.
‘What’s that language?’ I whispered.
Tyson’s eye widened. ‘Can’t be.’
‘What?’ I asked.
He grabbed two bars on our cell door and bent them wide enough for even a
Cyclops to slip through.
‘Wait!’ Grover called.
But Tyson wasn’t about to wait. We ran after him. The prison was dark, only a
few dim fluorescent lights flickering above.
‘I know this place,’ Annabeth told me. ‘This is Alcatraz.’
‘You mean that island near San Francisco?’
She nodded. ‘My school took a field trip here. It’s like a museum.’
It didn’t seem possible that we could’ve popped out of the Labyrinth on the
other side of the country, but Annabeth had been living in San Francisco all year,
keeping an eye on Mount Tamalpais, just across the bay. She probably knew
what she was talking about.
‘Freeze,’ Grover warned.
But Tyson kept going. Grover grabbed his arm and pulled him back with all
his strength. ‘Stop, Tyson!’ he whispered. ‘Can’t you see it?’
I looked where he was pointing, and my stomach did a somersault. On the
second-floor balcony, across the courtyard, was a monster more horrible than
anything I’d ever seen before.
It was sort of like a centaur, with a woman’s body from the waist up. But
instead of a horse’s lower body, it had the body of a dragon – at least seven
metres long, black and scaly with enormous claws and a barbed tail. Her legs
looked like they were tangled in vines, but then I realized they were sprouting
snakes, hundreds of vipers darting around, constantly looking for something to
bite. The woman’s hair was also made of snakes, like Medusa’s. Weirdest of all,
around her waist, where the woman part met the dragon part, her skin bubbled
and morphed, occasionally producing the heads of animals – a vicious wolf, a
bear, a lion, as if she were wearing a belt of ever-changing creatures. I got the
feeling I was looking at something half formed, a monster so old it was from the
beginning of time, before shapes had been fully defined.
‘It’s her,’ Tyson whimpered.
‘Get down!’ Grover said.
We crouched in the shadows, but the monster wasn’t paying us any attention.
It seemed to be talking to someone inside a cell on the second floor. That’s
where the sobbing was coming from. The dragon woman said something in her
weird rumbling language.
‘What’s she saying?’ I muttered. ‘What’s that language?’
‘The tongue of the old times.’ Tyson shivered. ‘What Mother Earth spoke to
Titans and… her other children. Before the gods.’
‘You understand it?’ I asked. ‘Can you translate?’
Tyson closed his eyes and began to speak in a horrible, raspy woman’s voice.
‘You will work for the master or suffer.’
Annabeth shuddered. ‘I hate it when he does that.’
Like all Cyclopes, Tyson had superhuman hearing and an uncanny ability to
mimic voices. It was almost like he entered a trance when he spoke in other
voices.
‘I will not serve,’ Tyson said in a deep, wounded voice.
He switched to the monster’s voice: ‘Then I shall enjoy your pain, Briares.’
Tyson faltered when he said that name. I’d never heard him break character
when he was mimicking somebody, but he let out a strangled gulp. Then he
continued in the monster‘s voice. ‘If you thought your first imprisonment was
unbearable, you have yet to feel true torment. Think on this until I return.’
The dragon lady tromped towards the stairwell, vipers hissing around her legs
like grass skirts. She spread wings that I hadn’t noticed before – huge bat wings
she kept folded against her dragon back. She leaped off the catwalk and soared
across the courtyard. We crouched lower in the shadows. A hot sulphurous wind
blasted my face as the monster flew over. Then she disappeared around the
corner.
‘H-h-horrible,’ Grover said. ‘I’ve never smelled any monster that strong.’
‘Cyclopes’ worst nightmare,’ Tyson murmured. ‘Kampê.’
‘Who?’ I asked.
Tyson swallowed. ‘Every Cyclops knows about her. Stories about her scare us
when we’re babies. She was our jailer in the bad years.’
Annabeth nodded. ‘I remember now. When the Titans ruled, they imprisoned
Gaia and Ouranos’s earlier children – the Cyclopes and the Hekatonkheires.’
‘The Heka-what?’ I asked.
‘The Hundred-handed Ones,’ she said. ‘They called them that because… well,
they had a hundred hands. They were elder brothers of the Cyclopes.’
‘Very powerful,’ Tyson said. ‘Wonderful! As tall as the sky. So strong they
could break mountains!’
‘Cool,’ I said. ‘Unless you’re a mountain.’
‘Kampê was the jailer,’ he said. ‘She worked for Kronos. She kept our
brothers locked up in Tartarus, tortured them always, until Zeus came. He killed
Kampê and freed Cyclopes and Hundred-handed Ones to help fight against the
Titans in the big war.’
‘And now Kampê is back,’ I said.
‘Bad,’ Tyson summed up.
‘So who’s in that cell?’ I asked. ‘You said a name –’
‘Briares!’ Tyson perked up. ‘He is a Hundred-handed One. They are as tall as
the sky and –’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘They break mountains.’
I looked up at the cells above us, wondering how something as tall as the sky
could fit in a tiny cell, and why he was crying.
‘I guess we should check it out,’ Annabeth said, ‘before Kampê comes back.’
As we approached the cell, the weeping got louder. When I first saw the creature
inside, I wasn’t sure what I was looking at. He was human-size and his skin was
very pale, the colour of milk. He wore a loincloth like a big diaper. His feet
seemed too big for his body, with cracked dirty toenails, eight toes on each foot.
But the top half of his body was the weird part. He made Janus look downright
normal. His chest sprouted more arms than I could count, in rows, all around his
body. The arms looked like normal arms, but there were so many of them, all
tangled together, that his chest looked kind of like a forkful of spaghetti
somebody had twirled together. Several of his hands were covering his face as he
sobbed.
‘Either the sky isn’t as tall as it used to be,’ I muttered, ‘or he’s short.’
Tyson didn’t pay any attention. He fell to his knees.
‘Briares!’ he called.
The sobbing stopped.
‘Great Hundred-handed One!’ Tyson said. ‘Help us!’
Briares looked up. His face was long and sad, with a crooked nose and bad
teeth. He had deep brown eyes – I mean completely brown with no whites or
black pupils, like eyes formed out of clay.
‘Run while you can, Cyclops,’ Briares said miserably. ‘I cannot even help
myself.’
‘You are a Hundred-handed One!’ Tyson insisted. ‘You can do anything!’
Briares wiped his nose with five or six hands. Several others were fidgeting
with little pieces of metal and wood from a broken bed, the way Tyson always
played with spare parts. It was amazing to watch. The hands seemed to have a
mind of their own. They built a toy boat out of wood, then disassembled it just as
fast. Other hands were scratching at the cement floor for no apparent reason.
Others were playing rock, paper, scissors. A few others were making ducky and
doggie shadow puppets against the wall.
‘I cannot,’ Briares moaned. ‘Kampê is back! The Titans will rise and throw us
back into Tartarus.’
‘Put on your brave face!’ Tyson said.
Immediately Briares’s face morphed into something else. Same brown eyes,
but otherwise totally different features. He had an upturned nose, arched
eyebrows and a weird smile, like he was trying to act brave. But then his face
turned back to what it had been before.
‘No good,’ he said. ‘My scared face keeps coming back.’
‘How did you do that?’ I asked.
Annabeth elbowed me. ‘Don’t be rude. The Hundred-handed Ones have fifty
different faces.’
‘Must make it hard to get a yearbook picture,’ I said.
Tyson was still entranced. ‘It will be okay, Briares! We will help you! Can I
have your autograph?’
Briares sniffled. ‘Do you have one hundred pens?’
‘Guys,’ Grover interrupted. ‘We have to get out of here. Kampê will be back.
She’ll sense us sooner or later.’
‘Break the bars,’ Annabeth said.
‘Yes!’ Tyson said, smiling proudly. ‘Briares can do it. He is very strong.
Stronger than Cyclopes, even! Watch!’
Briares whimpered. A dozen of his hands started playing pat-a-cake, but none
of them made any attempt to break the bars.
‘If he’s so strong,’ I said, ‘why is he stuck in jail?’
Annabeth elbowed me again. ‘He’s terrified,’ she whispered. ‘Kampê
imprisoned him in Tartarus for thousands of years. How would you feel?’
The Hundred-handed One covered his face again.
‘Briares?’ Tyson asked. ‘What… what is wrong? Show us your great
strength!’
‘Tyson,’ Annabeth said, ‘I think you’d better break the bars.’
Tyson’s smile melted slowly.
‘I will break the bars,’ he repeated. He grabbed the cell door and ripped it off
its hinges like it was made of wet clay.
‘Come on, Briares,’ Annabeth said. ‘Let’s get you out of here.’
She held out her hand. For a second, Briares’s face morphed to a hopeful
expression. Several of his arms reached out, but twice as many slapped them
away.
‘I cannot,’ he said. ‘She will punish me.’
‘It’s all right,’ Annabeth promised. ‘You fought the Titans before, and you
won, remember?’
‘I remember the war.’ Briares’s face morphed again – furrowed brow and a
pouting mouth. His brooding face, I guess. ‘Lightning shook the world. We
threw many rocks. The Titans and the monsters almost won. Now they are
getting strong again. Kampê said so.’
‘Don’t listen to her,’ I said. ‘Come on!’
He didn’t move. I knew Grover was right. We didn’t have much time before
Kampê returned. But I couldn’t just leave him here. Tyson would cry for weeks.
‘One game of rock, paper, scissors,’ I blurted out. ‘If I win, you come with us.
If I lose, we’ll leave you in jail.’
Annabeth looked at me like I was crazy.
Briares’s face morphed to doubtful. ‘I always win rock, paper, scissors.’
‘Then let’s do it!’ I pounded my fist in my palm three times.
Briares did the same with all one hundred hands, which sounded like an army
marching three steps forward. He came up with a whole avalanche of rocks, a
classroom set of scissors and enough paper to make a fleet of aeroplanes.
‘I told you,’ he said sadly. ‘I always –’ His face morphed to confusion. ‘What
is that you made?’
‘A gun,’ I told him, showing him my finger gun. It was a trick Paul Blofis had
pulled on me, but I wasn’t going to tell him that. ‘A gun beats anything.’
‘That’s not fair.’
‘I didn’t say anything about fair. Kampê’s not going to be fair if we hang
around. She’s going to blame you for ripping off the bars. Now come on!’
Briares sniffled. ‘Demigods are cheaters.’ But he slowly rose to his feet and
followed us out of the cell.
I started to feel hopeful. All we had to do was get downstairs and find the
Labyrinth entrance. But then Tyson froze.
On the ground floor right below, Kampê was snarling at us.
‘The other way,’ I said.
We bolted down the catwalk. This time Briares was happy to follow us. In fact
he sprinted out front, a hundred arms waving in panic.
Behind us, I heard the sound of giant wings as Kampê took to the air. She
hissed and growled in her ancient language, but I didn’t need a translation to
know she was planning to kill us.
We scrambled down the stairs, through a corridor and past a guard’s station –
out into another block of prison cells.
‘Left,’ Annabeth said. ‘I remember this from the tour.’
We burst outside and found ourselves in the prison yard, ringed by security
towers and barbed wire. After being inside so long, the daylight almost blinded
me. Tourists were milling around, taking pictures. The wind whipped cold off
the bay. In the south, San Francisco gleamed all white and beautiful, but in the
north, over Mount Tamalpais, huge storm clouds swirled. The whole sky seemed
like a black top spinning from the mountain where Atlas was imprisoned, and
where the Titan palace of Mount Othrys was rising anew. It was hard to believe
the tourists couldn’t see the supernatural storm brewing, but they didn’t give any
hint that anything was wrong.
‘It’s even worse,’ Annabeth said, gazing to the north. ‘The storms have been
bad all year, but that –’
‘Keep moving,’ Briares wailed. ‘She is behind us!’
We ran to the far end of the yard, as far from the cell block as possible.
‘Kampê’s too big to get through the doors,’ I said hopefully.
Then the wall exploded.
Tourists screamed as Kampê appeared from the dust and rubble, her wings
spread out as wide as the yard. She was holding two swords – long bronze
scimitars that glowed with a weird greenish aura, boiling wisps of vapour that
smelled sour and hot even across the yard.
‘Poison!’ Grover yelped. ‘Don’t let those things touch you or…’
‘Or we’ll die?’ I guessed.
‘Well… after you shrivel slowly to dust, yes.’
‘Let’s avoid the swords,’ I decided.
‘Briares, fight!’ Tyson urged. ‘Grow to full size!’
Instead, Briares looked like he was trying to shrink even smaller. He appeared
to be wearing his ‘absolutely terrified’ face.
Kampê thundered towards us on her dragon legs, hundreds of snakes
slithering around her body.
For a second I thought about drawing Riptide and facing her, but my heart
crawled into my throat. Then Annabeth said what I was thinking: ‘Run.’
That was the end of the debate. There was no fighting this thing. We ran
through the jail yard and out the gates of the prison, the monster right behind us.
Mortals screamed and ran. Emergency sirens began to blare.
We hit the wharf just as a tour boat was unloading. The new group of visitors
froze as they saw us charging towards them, followed by a mob of frightened
tourists, followed by… I don’t know what they saw through the Mist, but it
could not have been good.
‘The boat?’ Grover asked.
‘Too slow,’ Tyson said. ‘Back into the maze. Only chance.’
‘We need a diversion,’ Annabeth said.
Tyson ripped a metal lamppost out of the ground. ‘I will distract Kampê. You
run around, back to the prison.’
‘I’ll help you,’ I said.
‘No,’ Tyson said. ‘You go. Poison will hurt Cyclopes. A lot of pain. But it
won’t kill.’
‘Are you sure?’
‘Go, brother. I will meet you inside.’
I hated the idea. I’d almost lost Tyson once before, and I didn’t want to ever
risk that again. But there was no time to argue, and I had no better idea.
Annabeth, Grover and I each took one of Briares’s hands and dragged him
towards the concession stands while Tyson bellowed, lowered his pole and
charged Kampê like a jousting knight.
She’d been glaring at Briares, but Tyson got her attention as soon as he nailed
her in the chest with the pole, pushing her back into the wall. She shrieked and
slashed with her swords, slicing the pole to shreds. Poison dripped in pools all
around her, sizzling into the cement.
Tyson jumped back as Kampê’s hair lashed and hissed, and the vipers around
her legs darted their tongues in every direction. A lion popped out of the weird
half-formed faces around her waist and roared.
As we sprinted for the cell blocks, the last thing I saw was Tyson picking up
an ice-cream stand and throwing it at Kampê. Ice cream and poison exploded
everywhere, all the little snakes in Kampê’s hair dotted with chocolate sauce. We
dashed back into the jail yard.
‘Can’t make it,’ Briares huffed.
‘Tyson is risking his life to help you!’ I yelled at him. ‘You will make it.’
As we reached the door of the cell block, I heard an angry roar. I glanced back
and saw Tyson running towards us at full speed, Kampê right behind him. She
was plastered in ice cream and T-shirts. One of the bear heads on her waist was
now wearing a pair of crooked plastic Alcatraz sunglasses.
‘Hurry!’ Annabeth said, like I needed to be told that.
We finally found the cell where we’d come in, but the back wall was
completely smooth – no sign of a boulder or anything.
‘Look for the mark!’ Annabeth said.
‘There!’ Grover touched a tiny scratch, and it became a Greek Δ. The mark of
Daedalus glowed blue, and the stone wall ground open.
Too slowly. Tyson was coming through the cell block, Kampê’s swords
lashing out behind him, slicing indiscriminately through cell bars and stone
walls.
I pushed Briares inside the maze, then Annabeth and Grover.
‘You can do it!’ I told Tyson. But immediately I knew he couldn’t. Kampê was
gaining. She raised her swords. I needed a distraction – something big. I slapped
my wristwatch and it spiralled into a bronze shield. Desperately, I threw it at the
monster’s face.
SMACK! The shield hit her in the face and she faltered just long enough for
Tyson to dive past me into the maze. I was right behind him.
Kampê charged, but she was too late. The stone door closed and its magic
sealed us in. I could feel the whole tunnel shake as Kampê pounded against it,
roaring furiously. We didn’t stick around to play knock, knock with her, though.
We raced into the darkness, and for the first time (and the last) I was glad to be
back in the Labyrinth.