CHAPTER 3: Bianca Di Angelo Makes A Choice
After seeing Dr Thorn turn into a monster and plummet off the edge of a cliff
with Annabeth, you’d think nothing else could shock me. But when this twelveyear-old girl told me she was the goddess Artemis, I said something really
intelligent like, ‘Um… okay.’
That was nothing compared to Grover. He gasped, then knelt hastily in the
snow and started yammering, ‘Thank you, Lady Artemis! You’re so… you’re
so… Wow!’
‘Get up, goat boy!’ Thalia snapped. ‘We have other things to worry about.
Annabeth is gone!’
‘Whoa,’ Bianca di Angelo said. ‘Hold up. Time out.’
Everybody looked at her. She pointed her finger at all of us in turn, like she
was trying to connect the dots. ‘Who… who are you people?’
Artemis’s expression softened. ‘It might be a better question, my dear girl, to
ask who are you? Who are your parents?’
Bianca glanced nervously at her brother, who was still staring in awe at
Artemis.
‘Our parents are dead,’ Bianca said. ‘We’re orphans. There’s a bank trust that
pays for our school, but…’
She faltered. I guess she could tell from our faces that we didn’t believe her.
‘What?’she demanded. ‘I’m telling the truth.’
‘You are a half-blood,’ Zoë Nightshade said. Her accent was hard to place. It
seemed old-fashioned, like she was reading from a really old book. ‘One of thy
parents was mortal. The other was an Olympian.’
‘An Olympian… athlete?’
‘No,’ Zoë said. ‘One of the gods.’
‘Cool!’said Nico.
‘No!’ Bianca’s voice quavered. ‘This is not cool!’
Nico danced around like he needed to use the restroom. ‘Does Zeus really
have lightning bolts that do six hundred damage? Does he get extra movement
points for –’
‘Nico, shut up!’ Bianca put her hands to her face. ‘This is not your stupid
Mythomagic game, okay? There are no gods!’
As anxious as I felt about Annabeth – all I wanted to do was search for her – I
couldn’t help feeling sorry for the di Angelos. I remembered what it was like for
me when I first learned I was a demigod.
Thalia must’ve been feeling something similar, because the anger in her eyes
subsided a little bit. ‘Bianca, I know it’s hard to believe. But the gods are still
around. Trust me. They’re immortal. And whenever they have kids with regular
humans, kids like us, well… Our lives are dangerous.’
‘Dangerous,’ Bianca said, ‘like the girl who fell.’
Thalia turned away. Even Artemis looked pained.
‘Do not despair for Annabeth,’ the goddess said. ‘She was a brave maiden. If
she can be found, I shall find her.’
‘Then why won’t you let us go and look for her?’ I asked.
‘She is gone. Can’t you sense it, Son of Poseidon? Some magic is at work. I
do not know exactly how or why, but your friend has vanished.’
I still wanted to jump off the cliff and search for her, but I had a feeling that
Artemis was right. Annabeth was gone. If she’d been down there in the sea, I
thought, I’d be able to feel her presence.
‘Oo!’ Nico raised his hand. ‘What about Dr Thorn? That was awesome how
you shot him with arrows! Is he dead?’
‘He was a manticore,’ Artemis said. ‘Hopefully, he is destroyed for now, but
monsters never truly die. They reform over and over again, and they must be
hunted whenever they reappear.’
‘Or they’ll hunt us,’ Thalia said.
Bianca di Angelo shivered. ‘That explains… Nico, you remember last
summer, those guys who tried to attack us in the alley in D.C.?’
‘And that bus driver,’ Nico said. ‘The one with the ram’s horns. I told you that
was real.’
‘That’s why Grover has been watching you,’ I said. ‘To keep you safe, if you
turned out to be half-bloods.’
‘Grover?’ Bianca stared at him. ‘You’re a demigod?’
‘Well, a satyr, actually.’ He kicked off his shoes and displayed his goat
hooves. I thought Bianca was going to faint right there.
‘Grover, put your shoes back on,’ Thalia said. ‘You’re freaking her out.’
‘Hey, my hooves are clean!’
‘Bianca,’ I said, ‘we came here to help you. You and Nico need training to
survive. Dr Thorn won’t be the last monster you meet. You need to come to
camp.’
‘Camp?’she asked.
‘Camp Half-Blood,’ I said. ‘It’s where half-bloods learn to survive and stuff.
You can join us, stay there year round if you like.’
‘Sweet, let’s go!’said Nico.
‘Wait.’ Bianca shook her head. ‘I don’t –’
‘There is another option,’ Zoë said.
‘No, there isn’t!’ Thalia said.
Thalia and Zoë glared at each other. I didn’t know what they were talking
about, but I could tell there was bad history between them. For some reason,
they seriously hated each other.
‘We’ve burdened these children enough,’ Artemis announced. ‘Zoë, we will
rest here for a few hours. Raise the tents. Treat the wounded. Retrieve our
guests’belongings from the school.’
‘Yes, my lady.’
‘And, Bianca, come with me. I would like to speak with you.’
‘What about me?’ Nico asked.
Artemis considered the boy. ‘Perhaps you can show Grover how to play that
card game you enjoy. I’m sure Grover would be happy to entertain you for a
while… as a favour to me?’
Grover just about tripped over himself getting up. ‘You bet! Come on, Nico!’
Nico and Grover walked off towards the woods, talking about hit points and
armour ratings and a bunch of other geeky stuff. Artemis led a confused-looking
Bianca along the cliff. The Hunters began unpacking their backpacks and
making camp.
Zoë gave Thalia one more evil look, then left to oversee things.
As soon as she was gone, Thalia stamped her foot in frustration. ‘The nerve of
those Hunters! They think they’re so… Argh!’
‘I’m with you,’ I said. ‘I don’t trust –’
‘Oh, you’re with me?’ Thalia turned on me furiously. ‘What were you
thinking back there in the gym, Percy? You’d take on Dr Thorn all by yourself?
You knew he was a monster!’
‘I –’
‘If we’d stuck together, we could’ve taken him without the Hunters getting
involved. Annabeth might still be here. Did you think of that?’
My jaw clenched. I thought of some harsh things to say, and I might’ve said
them, too, but then I looked down and saw something navy blue lying in the
snow at my feet. Annabeth’s New York Yankees baseball cap.
Thalia didn’t say another word. She wiped a tear from her cheek, turned and
marched off, leaving me alone with a trampled cap in the snow.
The Hunters set up their campsite in a matter of minutes. Seven large tents, all of
silver silk, curved in a crescent round one side of a bonfire. One of the girls blew
a silver dog whistle, and a dozen white wolves appeared out of the woods. They
began circling the camp like guard dogs. The Hunters walked among them and
fed them treats, completely unafraid, but I decided I would stick close to the
tents. Falcons watched us from the trees, their eyes flashing in the firelight, and I
got the feeling they were on guard duty, too. Even the weather seemed to bend to
the goddess’s will. The air was still cold, but the wind died down and the snow
stopped falling, so it was almost pleasant sitting by the fire.
Almost… Except for the pain in my shoulder and the guilt weighing me down.
I couldn’t believe Annabeth was gone. And, as angry as I was at Thalia, I had a
sinking feeling that she was right. It was my fault.
What had Annabeth wanted to tell me in the gym? Something serious, she’d
said. Now I might never find out. I thought about how we’d danced together for
half a song, and my heart felt even heavier.
I watched Thalia pacing in the snow at the edge of camp, walking among the
wolves without fear. She stopped and looked back at Westover Hall, which was
now completely dark, looming on the hillside beyond the woods. I wondered
what she was thinking.
Seven years ago, Thalia had been turned into a pine tree by her father, to
prevent her from dying. She’d stood her ground against an army of monsters on
top of Half-Blood Hill in order to give her friends Luke and Annabeth time to
escape. She’d only been back as a human for a few months now, and once in a
while she would stand so motionless you’d think she was still a tree.
Finally, one of the Hunters brought me my backpack. Grover and Nico
returned from their walk, and Grover helped me fix up my wounded arm.
‘It’s green!’ Nico said with delight.
‘Hold still,’ Grover told me. ‘Here, eat some ambrosia while I clean that out.’
I winced as he dressed the wound, but the ambrosia square helped. It tasted
like homemade brownie, dissolving in my mouth and sending a warm feeling
through my whole body. Between that and the magic salve Grover used, my
shoulder felt better within a couple of minutes.
Nico rummaged through his own bag, which the Hunters had apparently
packed for him, though how they’d snuck into Westover Hall unseen, I didn’t
know. Nico laid out a bunch of figurines in the snow – little battle replicas of
Greek gods and heroes. I recognized Zeus with a lightning bolt, Ares with a
spear, Apollo with his sun chariot.
‘Big collection,’ I said.
Nico grinned. ‘I’ve got almost all of them, plus their holographic cards! Well,
except for a few really rare ones.’
‘You’ve been playing this game a long time?’
‘Just this year. Before that…’ He knitted his eyebrows.
‘What?’ I asked.
‘I forgot. That’s weird.’
He looked unsettled, but it didn’t last long. ‘Hey, can I see that sword you
were using?’
I showed him Riptide, and explained how it turned from a pen into a sword
just by uncapping it.
‘Cool! Does it ever run out of ink?’
‘Um, well, I don’t actually write with it.’
‘Are you really the son of Poseidon?’
‘Well, yeah.’
‘Can you surf really well, then?’
I looked at Grover, who was trying hard not to laugh.
‘Jeez, Nico,’ I said. ‘I’ve never really tried.’
He went on asking questions. Did I fight a lot with Thalia, since she was a
daughter of Zeus? (I didn’t answer that one.) If Annabeth’s mother was Athena,
the goddess of wisdom, then why didn’t Annabeth know better than to fall off a
cliff? (I tried not to strangle Nico for asking that one.) Was Annabeth my
girlfriend? (At this point, I was ready to stick the kid in a meat-flavoured sack
and throw him to the wolves.)
I figured any second he was going to ask me how many hit points I had, and
I’d lose my cool completely, but then Zoë Nightshade came up to us.
‘Percy Jackson.’
She had dark brown eyes and a slightly upturned nose. With her silver circlet
and her proud expression, she looked so much like royalty that I had to resist the
urge to sit up straight and say ‘Yes, ma’am.’ She studied me distastefully, like I
was a bag of dirty laundry she’d been sent to fetch.
‘Come with me,’she said. ‘Lady Artemis wishes to speak with thee.’
Zoë led me to the last tent, which looked no different from the others, and waved
me inside. Bianca di Angelo was seated next to the auburn-haired girl, who I still
had trouble thinking of as Artemis.
The inside of the tent was warm and comfortable. Silk rugs and pillows
covered the floor. In the centre, a golden brazier of fire seemed to burn without
fuel or smoke. Behind the goddess, on a polished oak display stand, was her
huge silver bow, carved to resemble gazelle horns. The walls were hung with
animal pelts – black bear, tiger and several others I didn’t recognize. I figured an
animal-rights activist would’ve had a heart attack looking at all those rare skins,
but maybe, since Artemis was the goddess of the hunt, she could replenish
whatever she shot. I thought she had another animal pelt lying next to her, and
then I realized it was alive – a deer with glittering fur and silver horns, its head
resting contentedly in Artemis’s lap.
‘Join us, Percy Jackson,’ the goddess said.
I sat across from her on the tent floor. The goddess studied me, which made
me uncomfortable. She had such old eyes for a young girl.
‘Are you surprised by my age?’she asked.
‘Uh… a little.’
‘I could appear as a grown woman, or a blazing fire, or anything else I want,
but this is what I prefer. This is the average age of my Hunters, and all young
maidens for whom I am patron, before they go astray.’
‘Go astray?’ I asked.
‘Grow up. Become smitten with boys. Become silly, preoccupied, insecure.
Forget themselves.’
‘Oh.’
Zoë sat down to Artemis’s right. She glared at me as if all the stuff Artemis
had just said was my fault, like I’d invented the idea of being a guy.
‘You must forgive my Hunters if they do not welcome you,’ Artemis said. ‘It
is very rare that we would have boys in this camp. Boys are usually forbidden to
have any contact with the Hunters. The last one to see this camp…’ She looked
at Zoë. ‘Which one was it?’
‘That boy in Colorado,’ Zoë said. ‘You turned him into a jackalope.’
‘Ah, yes.’ Artemis nodded, satisfied. ‘I enjoy making jackalopes. At any rate,
Percy, I’ve asked you here so that you might tell me more of the manticore.
Bianca has reported some of the… mmm, disturbing things the monster said. But
she may not have understood them. I’d like to hear them from you.’
And so I told her.
When I was done, Artemis put her hand thoughtfully on her silver bow. ‘I
feared this was the answer.’
Zoë sat forward. ‘The scent, my lady?’
‘Yes.’
‘What scent?’ I asked.
‘Things are stirring that I have not hunted in millennia,’ Artemis murmured.
‘Prey so old I have nearly forgotten.’
She stared at me intently. ‘We came here tonight sensing the manticore, but he
was not the one I seek. Tell me again, exactly what Dr Thorn said.’
‘Um, “I hate middle school dances.”’
‘No, no. After that.’
‘He said somebody called the General was going to explain things to me.’
Zoë’s face paled. She turned to Artemis and started to say something, but
Artemis raised her hand.
‘Go on, Percy,’ the goddess said.
‘Well, then Thorn was talking about the Great Stir Pot –’
‘Stirring,’ Bianca corrected.
‘Yeah. And he said, “Soon we shall have the most important monster of all –
the one that shall bring about the downfall of Olympus.”’
The goddess was so still she could’ve been a statue.
‘Maybe he was lying,’ I said.
Artemis shook her head. ‘No. He was not. I’ve been too slow to see the signs.
I must hunt this monster.’
Zoë looked like she was trying very hard not to be afraid, but she nodded. ‘We
will leave right away, my lady.’
‘No, Zoë. I must do this alone.’
‘But, Artemis –’
‘This task is too dangerous even for the Hunters. You know where I must start
my search. You cannot go there with me.’
‘As… as you wish, my lady.’
‘I will find this creature,’ Artemis vowed. ‘And I shall bring it back to
Olympus by winter solstice. It will be all the proof I need to convince the
Council of the Gods of how much danger we are in.’
‘You know what the monster is?’ I asked.
Artemis gripped her bow. ‘Let us pray I am wrong.’
‘Can goddesses pray?’ I asked, because I’d never really thought about that.
A flicker of a smile played across Artemis’s lips. ‘Before I go, Percy Jackson,
I have a small task for you.’
‘Does it involve getting turned into a jackalope?’
‘Sadly, no. I want you to escort the Hunters back to Camp Half-Blood. They
can stay there in safety until I return.’
‘What?’ Zoë blurted out. ‘But, Artemis, we hate that place. The last time we
stayed there –’
‘Yes, I know,’ Artemis said. ‘But I’m sure Dionysus will not hold a grudge
just because of a little, ah, misunderstanding. It’s your right to use Cabin Eight
whenever you are in need. Besides, I hear they rebuilt the cabins you burned
down.’
Zoë muttered something about foolish campers.
‘And now there is one last decision to make.’ Artemis turned to Bianca. ‘Have
you made up your mind, my girl?’
Bianca hesitated. ‘I’m still thinking about it.’
‘Wait,’ I said. ‘Thinking about what?’
‘They… they’ve invited me to join the Hunt.’
‘What? But you can’t! You have to come to Camp Half-Blood so Chiron can
train you. It’s the only way you can learn to survive.’
‘It is not the only way for a girl,’ Zoë said.
I couldn’t believe I was hearing this. ‘Bianca, camp is cool! It’s got a pegasus
stable and a sword-fighting arena and… I mean, what do you get by joining the
Hunters?’
‘To begin with,’ Zoë said, ‘immortality.’
I stared at her, then at Artemis. ‘She’s kidding, right?’
‘Zoë rarely kids about anything,’ Artemis said. ‘My Hunters follow me on my
adventures. They are my maidservants, my companions, my sisters-in-arms.
Once they swear loyalty to me, they are indeed immortal… unless they fall in
battle, which is unlikely. Or break their oath.’
‘What oath?’ I said.
‘To forswear romantic love forever,’ Artemis said. ‘To never grow up, never
get married. To be a maiden eternally.’
‘Like you?’
The goddess nodded.
I tried to imagine what she was saying. Being immortal. Hanging out with
only middle-school girls forever. I couldn’t get my mind round it. ‘So you just
go around the country recruiting half-bloods –’
‘Not just half-bloods,’ Zoë interrupted. ‘Lady Artemis does not discriminate
by birth. All who honour the goddess may join. Half-bloods, nymphs, mortals –’
‘Which are you, then?’
Anger flashed in Zoë’s eyes. ‘That is not thy concern, boy. The point is Bianca
may join if she wishes. It is her choice.’
‘Bianca, this is crazy,’ I said. ‘What about your brother? Nico can’t be a
Hunter.’
‘Certainly not,’ Artemis agreed. ‘He will go to camp. Unfortunately, that’s the
best boys can do.’
‘Hey!’ I protested.
‘You can see him from time to time,’ Artemis assured Bianca. ‘But you will be
free of responsibility. He will have the camp counsellors to take care of him.
And you will have a new family. Us.’
‘A new family,’ Bianca repeated dreamily. ‘Free of responsibility.’
‘Bianca, you can’t do this,’ I said. ‘It’s nuts.’
She looked at Zoë. ‘Is it worth it?’
Zoë nodded. ‘It is.’
‘What do I have to do?’
‘Say this,’ Zoë told her, ‘ “I pledge myself to the goddess Artemis.”’
‘I… I pledge myself to the goddess Artemis.’
‘ “I turn my back on the company of men, accept eternal maidenhood and join
the Hunt.” ’
Bianca repeated the lines. ‘That’s it?’
Zoë nodded. ‘If Lady Artemis accepts thy pledge, then it is binding.’
‘I accept it,’ Artemis said.
The flames in the brazier brightened, casting a silver glow over the room.
Bianca looked no different, but she took a deep breath and opened her eyes wide.
‘I feel… stronger.’
‘Welcome, sister,’ Zoë said.
‘Remember your pledge,’ Artemis said. ‘It is now your life.’
I couldn’t speak. I felt like a trespasser. And a complete failure. I couldn’t
believe I’d come all this way and suffered so much only to lose Bianca to some
eternal girls’ club.
‘Do not despair, Percy Jackson,’ Artemis said. ‘You will still get to show the
di Angelos your camp. And if Nico so chooses, he can stay there.’
‘Great,’ I said, trying not to sound surly. ‘How are we supposed to get there?’
Artemis closed her eyes. ‘Dawn is approaching. Zoë, break camp. You must
get to Long Island quickly and safely. I shall summon a ride from my brother.’
Zoë didn’t look very happy about this idea, but she nodded and told Bianca to
follow her. As she was leaving, Bianca paused in front of me. ‘I’m sorry, Percy.
But I want this. I really, really do.’
Then she was gone, and I was left alone with the twelve-year-old goddess.
‘So,’ I said glumly. ‘We’re going to get a ride from your brother, huh?’
Artemis’s silver eyes gleamed. ‘Yes, boy. You see, Bianca di Angelo is not the
only one with an annoying brother. It’s time for you to meet my irresponsible
twin, Apollo.’