CHAPTER 11: We Visit the Garden Gnome Emporium
In a way, it’s nice to know there are Greek gods out there, because you have
somebody to blame when things go wrong. For instance, when you’re walking
away from a bus that’s just been attacked by monster hags and blown up by
lightning, and it’s raining on top of everything else, most people might think
that’s just really bad luck; when you’re a half-blood, you understand that some
divine force really is trying to mess up your day.
So there we were, Annabeth and Grover and I, walking through the woods on
the New Jersey riverbank, the glow of New York City making the night sky
yellow behind us and the smell of the Hudson reeking in our noses.
Grover was shivering and braying, his big goat eyes turned slit-pupilled and
full of terror. ‘Three Kindly Ones. All three at once.’
I was pretty much in shock myself. The explosion of bus windows still rang in
my ears. But Annabeth kept pulling us along, saying: ‘Come on! The further
away we get, the better.’
‘All our money was back there,’ I reminded her. ‘Our food and clothes.
Everything.’
‘Well, maybe if you hadn’t decided to jump into the fight –’
‘What did you want me to do? Let you get killed?’
‘You didn’t need to protect me, Percy. I would’ve been fine.’
‘Sliced like sandwich bread,’ Grover put in, ‘but fine.’
‘Shut up, goat boy,’said Annabeth.
Grover brayed mournfully. ‘Tin cans… a perfectly good bag of tin cans.’
We sloshed across mushy ground, through nasty twisted trees that smelled like
sour laundry.
After a few minutes, Annabeth fell into line next to me. ‘Look, I…’ Her voice
faltered. ‘I appreciate your coming back for us, okay? That was really brave.’
‘We’re a team, right?’
She was silent for a few more steps. ‘It’s just that if you died… aside from the
fact that it would really suck for you, it would mean the quest was over. This
may be my only chance to see the real world.’
The thunderstorm had finally let up. The city glow faded behind us, leaving us
in almost total darkness. I couldn’t see anything of Annabeth except a glint of
her blonde hair.
‘You haven’t left Camp Half-Blood since you were seven?’ I asked her.
‘No… only short field trips. My dad –’
‘The history professor.’
‘Yeah. It didn’t work out for me living at home. I mean, Camp Half-Blood is
my home.’ She was rushing her words out now, as if she were afraid somebody
might try to stop her. ‘At camp you train and train. And that’s all cool and
everything, but the real world is where the monsters are. That’s where you learn
whether you’re any good or not.’
If I didn’t know better, I could’ve sworn I heard doubt in her voice.
‘You’re pretty good with that knife,’ I said.
‘You think so?’
‘Anybody who can piggyback-ride a Fury is okay by me.’
I couldn’t really see, but I thought she might’ve smiled.
‘You know,’ she said, ‘maybe I should tell you… Something funny back on
the bus…’
Whatever she wanted to say was interrupted by a shrill toot˜toot˜toot, like the
sound of an owl being tortured.
‘Hey, my reed pipes still work!’ Grover cried. ‘If I could just remember a
“find path” song, we could get out of these woods!’
He puffed out a few notes, but the tune still sounded suspiciously like Hilary
Duff.
Instead of finding a path, I immediately slammed into a tree and got a nicesize knot on my head.
Add to the list of superpowers I did not have: infrared vision.
After tripping and cursing and generally feeling miserable for another mile or
so, I started to see light up ahead: the colours of a neon sign. I could smell food.
Fried, greasy, excellent food. I realized I hadn’t eaten anything unhealthy since
I’d arrived at Half-Blood Hill, where we lived on grapes, bread, cheese and
extra-lean-cut nymph-prepared barbecue. This boy needed a double
cheeseburger.
We kept walking until I saw a deserted two-lane road through the trees. On the
other side was a closed-down gas station, a tattered billboard for a 1990s movie
and one open business, which was the source of the neon light and the good
smell.
It wasn’t a fast-food restaurant like I’d hoped. It was one of those weird
roadside curio shops that sell lawn flamingos and wooden Indians and cement
grizzly bears and stuff like that. The main building was a long, low warehouse,
surrounded by acres of statuary. The neon sign above the gate was impossible for
me to read, because if there’s anything worse for my dyslexia than regular
English, it’s red cursive neon English.
To me, it looked like: ATNYU MES GDERAN GOMEN MEPROIUM.
‘What the heck does that say?’ I asked.
‘I don’t know,’ Annabeth said.
She loved reading so much, I’d forgotten she was dyslexic, too.
Grover translated: ‘Aunty Em’s Garden Gnome Emporium.’
Flanking the entrance, as advertised, were two cement garden gnomes, ugly
bearded little runts, smiling and waving, as if they were about to get their picture
taken.
I crossed the street, following the smell of the hamburgers.
‘Hey…’ Grover warned.
‘The lights are on inside,’ Annabeth said. ‘Maybe it’s open.’
‘Snack bar,’ I said wistfully.
‘Snack bar,’she agreed.
‘Are you two crazy?’ Grover said. ‘This place is weird.’
We ignored him.
The front garden was a forest of statues: cement animals, cement children,
even a cement satyr playing the pipes, which gave Grover the creeps.
‘Bla-ha-ha!’ he bleated. ‘Looks like my Uncle Ferdinand!’
We stopped at the warehouse door.
‘Don’t knock,’ Grover pleaded. ‘I smell monsters.’
‘Your nose is clogged up from the Furies,’ Annabeth told him. ‘All I smell is
burgers. Aren’t you hungry?’
‘Meat!’ he said scornfully. ‘I’m a vegetarian.’
‘You eat cheese enchiladas and aluminium cans,’ I reminded him.
‘Those are vegetables. Come on. Let’s leave. These statues are… looking at
me.’
Then the door creaked open, and standing in front of us was a tall Middle
Eastern woman – at least, I assumed she was Middle Eastern, because she wore a
long black gown that covered everything but her hands, and her head was
completely veiled. Her eyes glinted behind a curtain of black gauze, but that was
about all I could make out. Her coffee-coloured hands looked old, but wellmanicured and elegant, so I imagined she was a grandmother who had once been
a beautiful lady.
Her accent sounded vaguely Middle Eastern, too. She said, ‘Children, it is too
late to be out all alone. Where are your parents?’
‘They’re… um…’ Annabeth started to say.
‘We’re orphans,’ I said.
‘Orphans?’ the woman said. The word sounded alien in her mouth. ‘But, my
dears! Surely not!’
‘We got separated from our caravan,’ I said. ‘Our circus caravan. The
ringmaster told us to meet him at the gas station if we got lost, but he may have
forgotten, or maybe he meant a different gas station. Anyway, we’re lost. Is that
food I smell?’
‘Oh, my dears,’ the woman said. ‘You must come in, poor children. I am
Aunty Em. Go straight through to the back of the warehouse, please. There is a
dining area.’
We thanked her and went inside.
Annabeth muttered to me, ‘Circus caravan?’
‘Always have a strategy, right?’
‘Your head is full of kelp.’
The warehouse was filled with more statues – people in all different poses,
wearing all different outfits and with different expressions on their faces. I was
thinking you’d have to have a pretty huge garden to fit even one of these statues,
because they were all life-size. But mostly I was thinking about food.
Go ahead, call me an idiot for walking into a strange lady’s shop like that just
because I was hungry, but I do impulsive stuff sometimes. Plus, you’ve never
smelled Aunty Em’s burgers. The aroma was like laughing gas in the dentist’s
chair – it made everything else go away. I barely noticed Grover’s nervous
whimpers, or the way the statues’ eyes seemed to follow me, or the fact that
Aunty Em had locked the door behind us.
All I cared about was finding the dining area. And, sure enough, there it was
at the back of the warehouse, a fast-food counter with a grill, a soda fountain, a
pretzel heater and a nacho cheese dispenser. Everything you could want, plus a
few steel picnic tables out front.
‘Please, sit down,’ Aunty Em said.
‘Awesome,’ I said.
‘Um,’ Grover said reluctantly, ‘we don’t have any money, ma’am.’
Before I could jab him in the ribs, Aunty Em said, ‘No, no, children. No
money. This is a special case, yes? It is my treat, for such nice orphans.’
‘Thank you, ma’am,’ Annabeth said.
Aunty Em stiffened, as if Annabeth had done something wrong, but then the
old woman relaxed just as quickly, so I figured it must’ve been my imagination.
‘Quite all right, Annabeth,’ she said. ‘You have such beautiful grey eyes,
child.’ Only later did I wonder how she knew Annabeth’s name, even though we
had never introduced ourselves.
Our hostess disappeared behind the snack counter and started cooking. Before
we knew it, she’d brought us plastic trays heaped with double cheeseburgers,
vanilla shakes and XXL servings of French fries.
I was halfway through my burger before I remembered to breathe.
Annabeth slurped her shake.
Grover picked at the fries, and eyed the tray’s waxed paper liner as if he might
go for that, but he still looked too nervous to eat.
‘What’s that hissing noise?’ he asked.
I listened, but didn’t hear anything. Annabeth shook her head.
‘Hissing?’ Aunty Em asked. ‘Perhaps you hear the deep-fryer oil. You have
keen ears, Grover.’
‘I take vitamins. For my ears.’
‘That’s admirable,’she said. ‘But please, relax.’
Aunty Em ate nothing. She hadn’t taken off her headdress, even to cook, and
now she sat forward and interlaced her fingers and watched us eat. It was a little
unsettling, having someone stare at me when I couldn’t see her face, but I was
feeling satisfied after the burger, and a little sleepy, and I figured the least I could
do was try to make small talk with our hostess.
‘So, you sell gnomes,’ I said, trying to sound interested.
‘Oh, yes,’ ‘Aunty Em said. And animals. And people. Anything for the
garden. Custom orders. Statuary is very popular, you know.’
‘A lot of business on this road?’
‘Not so much, no. Since the highway was built… most cars, they do not go
this way now. I must cherish every customer I get.’
My neck tingled, as if somebody else was looking at me. I turned, but it was
just a statue of a young girl holding an Easter basket. The detail was incredible,
much better than you see in most garden statues. But something was wrong with
her face. It looked as if she were startled, or even terrified.
‘Ah,’ Aunty Em said sadly. ‘You notice some of my creations do not turn out
well. They are marred. They do not sell. The face is the hardest to get right.
Always the face.’
‘You make these statues yourself?’ I asked.
‘Oh, yes. Once upon a time, I had two sisters to help me in the business, but
they have passed on, and Aunty Em is alone. I have only my statues. This is why
I make them, you see. They are my company.’ The sadness in her voice sounded
so deep and so real that I couldn’t help feeling sorry for her.
Annabeth had stopped eating. She sat forward and said, ‘Two sisters?’
‘It’s a terrible story,’ Aunty Em said. ‘Not one for children, really. You see,
Annabeth, a bad woman was jealous of me, long ago, when I was young. I had
a… a boyfriend, you know, and this bad woman was determined to break us
apart. She caused a terrible accident. My sisters stayed by me. They shared my
bad fortune as long as they could, but eventually they passed on. They faded
away. I alone have survived, but at a price. Such a price.’
I wasn’t sure what she meant, but I felt bad for her. My eyelids kept getting
heavier, my full stomach making me sleepy. Poor old lady. Who would want to
hurt somebody so nice?
‘Percy?’ Annabeth was shaking me to get my attention. ‘Maybe we should go.
I mean, the ringmaster will be waiting.’
She sounded tense. I wasn’t sure why. Grover was eating the waxed paper off
the tray now, but if Aunty Em found that strange, she didn’t say anything.
‘Such beautiful grey eyes,’ Aunty Em told Annabeth again. ‘My, yes, it has
been a long time since I’ve seen grey eyes like those.’
She reached out as if to stroke Annabeth’s cheek, but Annabeth stood up
abruptly.
‘We really should go.’
‘Yes!’ Grover swallowed his waxed paper and stood up. ‘The ringmaster is
waiting! Right!’
I didn’t want to leave. I felt full and content. Aunty Em was so nice. I wanted
to stay with her a while.
‘Please, dears,’ Aunty Em pleaded. ‘I so rarely get to be with children. Before
you go, won’t you at least sit for a pose?’
‘A pose?’ Annabeth asked warily.
‘A photograph. I will use it to model a new statue set. Children are so popular,
you see. Everyone loves children.’
Annabeth shifted her weight from foot to foot. ‘I don’t think we can, ma’am.
Come on, Percy –’
‘Sure we can,’ I said. I was irritated with Annabeth for being so bossy, so rude
to an old lady who’d just fed us for free. ‘It’s just a photo, Annabeth. What’s the
harm?’
‘Yes, Annabeth,’ the woman purred. ‘No harm.’
I could tell Annabeth didn’t like it, but she allowed Aunty Em to lead us back
out the front door, into the garden of statues.
Aunty Em directed us to a park bench next to the stone satyr. ‘Now,’ she said,
‘I’ll just position you correctly. The young girl in the middle, I think, and the two
young gentlemen on either side.’
‘Not much light for a photo,’ I remarked.
‘Oh, enough,’ Aunty Em said. ‘Enough for us to see each other, yes?’
‘Where’s your camera?’ Grover asked.
Aunty Em stepped back, as if to admire the shot. ‘Now, the face is the most
difficult. Can you smile for me please, everyone? A large smile?’
Grover glanced at the cement satyr next to him, and mumbled, ‘That sure does
look like Uncle Ferdinand.’
‘Grover,’ Aunty Em chastised, ‘look this way, dear.’
She still had no camera in her hands.
‘Percy –’ Annabeth said.
Some instinct warned me to listen to Annabeth, but I was fighting the sleepy
feeling, the comfortable lull that came from the food and the old lady’s voice.
‘I will just be a moment,’ Aunty Em said. ‘You know, I can’t see you very
well in this cursed veil…’
‘Percy, something’s wrong,’ Annabeth insisted.
‘Wrong?’ Aunty Em said, reaching up to undo the wrap around her head. ‘Not
at all, dear. I have such noble company tonight. What could be wrong?’
‘That is Uncle Ferdinand!’ Grover gasped.
‘Look away from her!’ Annabeth shouted. She whipped her Yankees cap on to
her head and vanished. Her invisible hands pushed Grover and me both off the
bench.
I was on the ground, looking at Aunt Em’s sandalled feet.
I could hear Grover scrambling off in one direction, Annabeth in another. But
I was too dazed to move.
Then I heard a strange, rasping sound above me. My eyes rose to Aunty Em’s
hands, which had turned gnarled and warty, with sharp bronze talons for
fingernails.
I almost looked higher, but somewhere off to my left Annabeth screamed,
‘No! Don’t!’
More rasping – the sound of tiny snakes, right above me, from… from about
where Aunty Em’s head would be.
‘Run!’ Grover bleated. I heard him racing across the gravel, yelling, ‘Maia!’
to kick-start his flying sneakers.
I couldn’t move. I stared at Aunty Em’s gnarled claws, and tried to fight the
groggy trance the old woman had put me in.
‘Such a pity to destroy a handsome young face,’ she told me soothingly. ‘Stay
with me, Percy. All you have to do is look up.’
I fought the urge to obey. Instead I looked to one side and saw one of those
glass spheres people put in gardens – a gazing ball. I could see Aunty Em’s dark
reflection in the orange glass; her headdress was gone, revealing her face as a
shimmering pale circle. Her hair was moving, writhing like serpents.
Aunty Em.
Aunty ‘M’.
How could I have been so stupid?
Think, I told myself. How did Medusa die in the myth?
But I couldn’t think. Something told me that in the myth Medusa had been
asleep when she was attacked by my namesake, Perseus. She wasn’t anywhere
near asleep now. If she wanted, she could take those talons right now and rake
open my face.
‘The Grey-Eyed One did this to me, Percy,’ Medusa said, and she didn’t sound
anything like a monster. Her voice invited me to look up, to sympathize with a
poor old grandmother. ‘Annabeth’s mother, the cursed Athena, turned me from a
beautiful woman into this.’
‘Don’t listen to her!’ Annabeth’s voice shouted, somewhere in the statuary.
‘Run, Percy!’
‘Silence!’ Medusa snarled. Then her voice modulated back to a comforting
purr. ‘You see why I must destroy the girl, Percy. She is my enemy’s daughter. I
shall crush her statue to dust. But you, dear Percy, you need not suffer.’
‘No,’ I muttered. I tried to make my legs move.
‘Do you really want to help the gods?’ Medusa asked. ‘Do you understand
what awaits you on this foolish quest, Percy? What will happen if you reach the
Underworld? Do not be a pawn of the Olympians, my dear. You would be better
off as a statue. Less pain. Less pain.’
‘Percy!’ Behind me, I heard a buzzing sound, like a ninety-kilogram
hummingbird in a nosedive. Grover yelled, ‘Duck!’
I turned, and there he was in the night sky, flying in from twelve o’clock with
his winged shoes fluttering – Grover, holding a tree branch the size of a baseball
bat. His eyes were shut tight, his head twitched from side to side. He was
navigating by ears and nose alone.
‘Duck!’ he yelled again. ‘I’ll get her!’
That finally jolted me into action. Knowing Grover, I was sure he’d miss
Medusa and nail me. I dove to one side.
Thwack!
At first I figured it was the sound of Grover hitting a tree. Then Medusa
roared with rage.
‘You miserable satyr,’she snarled. ‘I’ll add you to my collection!’
‘That was for Uncle Ferdinand!’ Grover yelled back.
I scrambled away and hid in the statuary while Grover swooped down for
another pass.
Ker-whack!
‘Arrgh!’ Medusa yelled, her snake-hair hissing and spitting.
Right next to me, Annabeth’s voice said, ‘Percy!’
I jumped so high my feet nearly cleared a garden gnome. ‘Jeez! Don’t do
that!’
Annabeth took off her Yankees cap and became visible. ‘You have to cut her
head off’
‘What? Are you crazy? Let’s get out of here.’
‘Medusa is a menace. She’s evil. I’d kill her myself, but…’ Annabeth
swallowed, as if she were about to make a difficult admission. ‘But you’ve got
the better weapon. Besides, I’d never get close to her. She’d slice me to bits
because of my mother. You – you’ve got a chance.’
‘What? I can’t –’
‘Look, do you want her turning more innocent people into statues?’
She pointed to a pair of statue lovers, a man and a woman with their arms
around each other, turned to stone by the monster.
Annabeth grabbed a green gazing ball from a nearby pedestal. ‘A polished
shield would be better.’ She studied the sphere critically. ‘The convexity will
cause some distortion. The reflection’s size should be off by a factor of –’
‘Would you speak English?’
‘I am!’ She tossed me the glass ball. ‘Just look at her in the glass. Never look
at her directly.’
‘Hey, guys!’ Grover yelled somewhere above us. ‘I think she’s unconscious!’
‘Roooaaarrr!’
‘Maybe not,’ Grover corrected. He went in for another pass with the tree
branch.
‘Hurry,’ Annabeth told me. ‘Grover’s got a great nose, but he’ll eventually
crash.’
I took out my pen and uncapped it. The bronze blade of Riptide elongated in
my hand.
I followed the hissing and spitting sounds of Medusa’s hair.
I kept my eyes locked on the gazing ball so I would only glimpse Medusa’s
reflection, not the real thing. Then, in the green tinted glass, I saw her.
Grover was coming in for another turn at bat, but this time he flew a little too
low. Medusa grabbed the stick and pulled him off course. He tumbled through
the air and crashed into the arms of a stone grizzly bear with a painful
‘Ummphh!’
Medusa was about to lunge at him when I yelled, ‘Hey!’
I advanced on her, which wasn’t easy, holding a sword and a glass ball. If she
charged, I’d have a hard time defending myself.
But she let me approach – ten metres, five metres.
I could see the reflection of her face now. Surely it wasn’t really that ugly. The
green swirls of the gazing ball must be distorting it, making it look worse.
‘You wouldn’t harm an old woman, Percy,’ she crooned. ‘I know you
wouldn’t.’
I hesitated, fascinated by the face I saw reflected in the glass – the eyes that
seemed to burn straight through the green tint, making my arms go weak.
From the cement grizzly, Grover moaned, ‘Percy, don’t listen to her!’
Medusa cackled. ‘Too late.’
She lunged at me with her talons.
I slashed up with my sword, heard a sickening shlock!, then a hiss like wind
rushing out of a cavern – the sound of a monster disintegrating.
Something fell to the ground next to my foot. It took all my willpower not to
look. I could feel warm ooze soaking into my sock, little dying snake heads
tugging at my shoelaces.
‘Oh, yuck,’ Grover said. His eyes were still tightly closed, but I guess he could
hear the thing gurgling and steaming. ‘Mega-yuck.’
Annabeth came up next to me, her eyes fixed on the sky. She was holding
Medusa’s black veil. She said, ‘Don’t move.’
Very, very carefully, without looking down, she knelt and draped the
monster’s head in black cloth, then picked it up. It was still dripping green juice.
‘Are you okay?’she asked me, her voice trembling.
‘Yeah,’ I decided, though I felt like throwing up my double cheeseburger.
‘Why didn’t… why didn’t the head evaporate?’
‘Once you sever it, it becomes a spoil of war,’ she said. ‘Same as your
Minotaur horn. But don’t unwrap the head. It can still petrify you.’
Grover moaned as he climbed down from the grizzly statue. He had a big welt
on his forehead. His green rasta cap hung from one of his little goat horns, and
his fake feet had been knocked off his hooves. The magic sneakers were flying
aimlessly around his head.
‘The Red Baron,’ I said. ‘Good job, man.’
He managed a bashful grin. ‘That really was not fun, though. Well, the hittingher-with-a-stick part, that was fun. But crashing into a concrete bear? Not fun.’
He snatched his shoes out of the air. I recapped my sword. Together, the three
of us stumbled back to the warehouse.
We found some old plastic grocery bags behind the snack counter and doublewrapped Medusa’s head. We plopped it on the table where we’d eaten dinner and
sat around it, too exhausted to speak.
Finally I said, ‘So we have Athena to thank for this monster?’
Annabeth flashed me an irritated look. ‘Your dad, actually. Don’t you
remember? Medusa was Poseidon’s girlfriend. They decided to meet in my
mother’s temple. That’s why Athena turned her into a monster. Medusa and her
two sisters who had helped her get into the temple, they became the three
gorgons. That’s why Medusa wanted to slice me up, but she wanted to preserve
you as a nice statue. She’s still sweet on your dad. You probably reminded her of
him.’
My face was burning. ‘Oh, so now it’s my fault we met Medusa.’
Annabeth straightened. In a bad imitation of my voice, she said: ‘ “It’s just a
photo, Annabeth. What’s the harm?” ’
‘Forget it,’ I said. ‘You’re impossible.’
‘You’re insufferable.’
‘You’re –’
‘Hey!’ Grover interrupted. ‘You two are giving me a migraine, and satyrs
don’t even get migraines. What are we going to do with the head?’
I stared at the thing. One little snake was hanging out of a hole in the plastic.
The words printed on the side of the bag said: WE APPRECIATE YOUR
BUSINESS!
I was angry, not just with Annabeth or her mom, but with all the gods for this
whole quest, for getting us blown off the road and in two major fights the very
first day out from camp. At this rate, we’d never make it to L.A. alive, much less
before the summer solstice.
What had Medusa said?
Do not be a pawn of the Olympians, my dear. You would be better off as a
statue.
I got up. ‘I’ll be back.’
‘Percy,’ Annabeth called after me. ‘What are you –’
I searched the back of the warehouse until I found Medusa’s office. Her
account book showed her six most recent sales, all shipments to the Underworld
to decorate Hades and Persephone’s garden. According to one freight bill, the
Underworld’s billing address was DOA Recording Studios, West Hollywood,
California. I folded up the bill and stuffed it in my pocket.
In the cash register I found twenty dollars, a few golden drachmas and some
packing slips for Hermes Overnight Express, each with a little leather bag
attached for coins. I rummaged around the rest of the office until I found the
right-size box.
I went back to the picnic table, packed up Medusa’s head, and filled out a
delivery slip:
The Gods
Mount Olympus
600th Floor,
Empire State Building
New York, NY
With best wishes,
PERCY JACKSON
‘They’re not going to like that,’ Grover warned. ‘They’ll think you’re
impertinent.’
I poured some golden drachmas in the pouch. As soon as I closed it, there was
a sound like a cash register. The package floated off the table and disappeared
with a pop!
‘I am impertinent,’ I said.
I looked at Annabeth, daring her to criticize.
She didn’t. She seemed resigned to the fact that I had a major talent for ticking
off the gods. ‘Come on,’she muttered. ‘We need a new plan.’