CHAPTER 9: I Am Offered a Quest
The next morning, Chiron moved me to cabin three.
I didn’t have to share with anybody. I had plenty of room for all my stuff: the
Minotaur horn, one set of spare clothes and a toiletry bag. I got to sit at my own
dinner table, pick all my own activities, call ‘lights out’ whenever I felt like it
and not listen to anybody else.
And I was absolutely miserable.
Just when I’d started to feel accepted, to feel I had a home in cabin eleven and
I might be a normal kid – or as normal as you can be when you’re a half-blood –
I’d been separated out as if I had some rare disease.
Nobody mentioned the hellhound, but I got the feeling they were all talking
about it behind my back. The attack had scared everybody. It sent two messages:
one, that I was the son of the Sea God; and two, monsters would stop at nothing
to kill me. They could even invade a camp that had always been considered safe.
The other campers steered clear of me as much as possible. Cabin eleven was
too nervous to have sword class with me after what I’d done to the Ares folks in
the woods, so my lessons with Luke became one-on-one. He pushed me harder
than ever, and wasn’t afraid to bruise me up in the process.
‘You’re going to need all the training you can get,’ he promised, as we were
working with swords and flaming torches. ‘Now let’s try that viper-beheading
strike again. Fifty more repetitions.’
Annabeth still taught me Greek in the mornings, but she seemed distracted.
Every time I said something, she scowled at me, as if I’d just poked her between
the eyes.
After lessons, she would walk away muttering to herself: ‘Quest…
Poseidon?… Dirty rotten… Got to make a plan…’
Even Clarisse kept her distance, though her venomous looks made it clear she
wanted to kill me for breaking her magic spear. I wished she would just yell or
punch me or something. I’d rather get into fights every day than be ignored.
I knew somebody at camp resented me, because one night I came into my cabin
and found a mortal newspaper dropped inside the doorway, a New York Daily
News, opened to the Metro page. The article took me almost an hour to read,
because the angrier I got, the more the words floated around on the page.
BOY AND MOTHER STILL MISSING AFTER FREAK CAR ACCIDENT
BY EILEEN SMYTHE
Sally Jackson and son Percy are still missing one week after their mysterious disappearance.
The family’s badly burned ‘78 Camaro was discovered last Saturday on a north Long Island
road with the roof ripped off and the front axle broken. The car had flipped and skidded for
several hundred metres before exploding.
Mother and son had gone for a weekend vacation to Montauk, but left hastily, under
mysterious circumstances. Small traces of blood were found in the car and near the scene of
the wreck, but there were no other signs of the missing Jacksons. Residents in the rural area
reported seeing nothing unusual around the time of the accident.
Ms Jackson’s husband, Gabe Ugliano, claims that his stepson, Percy Jackson, is a troubled
child who has been kicked out of numerous boarding schools and has expressed violent
tendencies in the past.
Police would not say whether son Percy is a suspect in his mother’s disappearance, but
they have not ruled out foul play. Below are recent pictures of Sally Jackson and Percy. Police
urge anyone with information to call the following toll-free crime-stoppers hotline.
The phone number was circled in black marker.
I wadded up the paper and threw it away, then flopped down in my bunk bed
in the middle of my empty cabin.
‘Lights out,’ I told myself miserably.
That night, I had my worst dream yet.
I was running along the beach in a storm. This time, there was a city behind
me. Not New York. The sprawl was different: buildings spread farther apart,
palm trees and low hills in the distance.
About a hundred metres down the surf, two men were fighting. They looked
like TV wrestlers, muscular, with beards and long hair. Both wore flowing Greek
tunics, one trimmed in blue, the other in green. They grappled with each other,
wrestled, kicked and head-butted, and every time they connected, lightning
flashed, the sky grew darker, and the wind rose.
I had to stop them. I didn’t know why. But the harder I ran, the more the wind
blew me back, until I was running on the spot, my heels digging uselessly in the
sand.
Over the roar of the storm, I could hear the blue-robed one yelling at the
green-robed one, Give it back! Give it back! Like a kindergartner fighting over a
toy.
The waves got bigger, crashing into the beach, spraying me with salt.
I yelled, Stop it! Stop fighting!
The ground shook. Laughter came from somewhere under the earth, and a
voice so deep and evil it turned my blood to ice.
‘Come down, little hero,’ the voice crooned. ‘Come down!’
The sand split beneath me, opening up a crevice straight down to the centre of
the earth. My feet slipped, and darkness swallowed me.
I woke up, sure I was falling.
I was still in bed in cabin three. My body told me it was morning, but it was
dark outside, and thunder rolled across the hills. A storm was brewing. I hadn’t
dreamed that.
I heard a clopping sound at the door, a hoof knocking on the threshold.
‘Come in.’
Grover trotted inside, looking worried. ‘Mr D wants to see you.’
‘Why?’
‘He wants to kill… I mean, I’d better let him tell you.’
Nervously, I got dressed and followed, sure that I was in huge trouble.
For days, I’d been half expecting a summons to the Big House. Now that I
was declared a son of Poseidon, one of the Big Three gods who weren’t
supposed to have kids, I figured it was a crime for me just to be alive. The other
gods had probably been debating the best way to punish me for existing, and
now Mr D was ready to deliver their verdict.
Over Long Island Sound, the sky looked like ink soup coming to a boil. A
hazy curtain of rain was coming in our direction. I asked Grover if we needed an
umbrella.
‘No,’ he said. ‘It never rains here unless we want it to.’
I pointed at the storm. ‘What the heck is that, then?’
He glanced uneasily at the sky. ‘It’ll pass around us. Bad weather always
does.’
I realized he was right. In the week I’d been here, it had never even been
overcast. The few rain clouds I’d seen had skirted right around the edges of the
valley.
But this storm… this one was huge.
At the volleyball pit, the kids from Apollo’s cabin were playing a morning
game against the satyrs. Dionysus’s twins were walking around in the strawberry
fields, making the plants grow. Everybody was going about their normal
business, but they looked tense. They kept their eyes on the storm.
Grover and I walked up to the front porch of the Big House. Dionysus sat at
the pinochle table in his tiger-striped Hawaiian shirt with his Diet Coke, just as
he had on my first day. Chiron sat across the table in his fake wheelchair. They
were playing against invisible opponents – two sets of cards hovering in the air.
‘Well, well,’ Mr D said without looking up. ‘Our little celebrity.’
I waited.
‘Come closer,’ Mr D said. ‘And don’t expect me to kowtow to you, mortal,
just because old Barnacle-Beard is your father.’
A net of lightning flashed across the clouds. Thunder shook the windows of
the house.
‘Blah, blah, blah,’ Dionysus said.
Chiron feigned interest in his pinochle cards. Grover cowered by the railing,
his hooves clopping back and forth.
‘If I had my way,’ Dionysus said, ‘I would cause your molecules to erupt in
flames. We’d sweep up the ashes and be done with a lot of trouble. But Chiron
seems to feel this would be against my mission at this cursed camp: to keep you
little brats safe from harm.’
‘Spontaneous combustion is a form of harm, Mr D,’ Chiron put in.
‘Nonsense,’ Dionysus said. ‘Boy wouldn’t feel a thing. Nevertheless, I’ve
agreed to restrain myself. I’m thinking of turning you into a dolphin instead,
sending you back to your father.’
‘Mr D –’ Chiron warned.
‘Oh, all right,’ Dionysus relented. ‘There’s one more option. But it’s deadly
foolishness.’ Dionysus rose, and the invisible players’ cards dropped to the table.
‘I’m off to Olympus for the emergency meeting. If the boy is still here when I
get back, I’ll turn him into an Atlantic bottlenose. Do you understand? And
Perseus Jackson, if you’re at all smart, you’ll see that’s a much more sensible
choice than what Chiron feels you must do.’
Dionysus picked up a playing card, twisted it, and it became a plastic
rectangle. A credit card? No. A security pass.
He snapped his fingers.
The air seemed to fold and bend around him. He became a holograph, then a
wind, then he was gone, leaving only the smell of fresh-pressed grapes lingering
behind.
Chiron smiled at me, but he looked tired and strained. ‘Sit, Percy, please. And
Grover.’
We did.
Chiron laid his cards on the table, a winning hand he hadn’t got to use.
‘Tell me, Percy,’ he said. ‘What did you make of the hellhound?’
Just hearing the name made me shudder.
Chiron probably wanted me to say, Heck, it was nothing. I eat hellhounds for
breakfast. But I didn’t feel like lying.
‘It scared me,’ I said. ‘If you hadn’t shot it, I’d be dead.’
‘You’ll meet worse, Percy. Far worse, before you’re done.’
‘Done… with what?’
‘Your quest, of course. Will you accept it?’
I glanced at Grover, who was crossing his fingers.
‘Um, sir,’ I said, ‘you haven’t told me what it is yet.’
Chiron grimaced. ‘Well, that’s the hard part, the details.’
Thunder rumbled across the valley. The storm clouds had now reached the
edge of the beach. As far as I could see, the sky and the sea were boiling
together.
‘Poseidon and Zeus,’ I said. ‘They’re fighting over something valuable…
something that was stolen, aren’t they?’
Chiron and Grover exchanged looks.
Chiron sat forward in his wheelchair. ‘How did you know that?’
My face felt hot. I wished I hadn’t opened my big mouth. ‘The weather since
Christmas has been weird, like the sea and the sky are fighting. Then I talked to
Annabeth, and she’d overheard something about a theft. And… I’ve also been
having these dreams.’
‘I knew it,’ Grover said.
‘Hush, satyr,’ Chiron ordered.
‘But it is his quest!’ Grover’s eyes were bright with excitement. ‘It must be!’
‘Only the Oracle can determine.’ Chiron stroked his bristly beard.
‘Nevertheless, Percy, you are correct. Your father and Zeus are having their
worst quarrel in centuries. They are fighting over something valuable that was
stolen. To be precise: a lightning bolt.’
I laughed nervously. ‘A what?’
‘Do not take this lightly,’ Chiron warned. ‘I’m not talking about some tinfoilcovered zigzag you’d see in a second-grade play. I’m talking about a two-footlong cylinder of high-grade celestial bronze, capped on both ends with god-level
explosives.’
‘Oh.’
‘Zeus’s master bolt,’ Chiron said, getting worked up now. ‘The symbol of his
power, from which all other lightning bolts are patterned. The first weapon made
by the Cyclopes for the war against the Titans, the bolt that sheered the top off
Mount Etna and hurled Kronos from his throne; the master bolt, which packs
enough power to make mortal hydrogen bombs look like firecrackers.’
‘And it’s missing?’
‘Stolen,’ Chiron said.
‘By who?’
‘By whom’ Chiron corrected. Once a teacher, always a teacher. ‘By you.’
My mouth fell open.
‘At least’ – Chiron held up a hand – ‘that’s what Zeus thinks. During the
winter solstice, at the last council of the gods, Zeus and Poseidon had an
argument. The usual nonsense: “Mother Rhea always liked you best,” “Air
disasters are more spectacular than sea disasters,” et cetera. Afterwards, Zeus
realized his master bolt was missing, taken from the throne room under his very
nose. He immediately blamed Poseidon. Now a god cannot usurp another god‘s
symbol of power directly – that is forbidden by the most ancient of divine laws.
But Zeus believes your father convinced a human hero to take it.’
‘But I didn’t –’
‘Patience and listen, child,’ Chiron said. ‘Zeus has good reason to be
suspicious. The forges of the Cyclopes are under the ocean, which gives
Poseidon some influence over the makers of his brother’s lightning. Zeus
believes Poseidon has taken the master bolt, and is now secretly having the
Cyclopes build an arsenal of illegal copies, which might be used to topple Zeus
from his throne. The only thing Zeus wasn’t sure about was which hero Poseidon
used to steal the bolt. Now Poseidon has openly claimed you as his son. You
were in New York over the winter holidays. You could easily have snuck into
Olympus. Zeus believes he has found his thief.’
‘But I’ve never even been to Olympus! Zeus is crazy!’
Chiron and Grover glanced nervously at the sky. The clouds didn’t seem to be
parting around us, as Grover had promised. They were rolling straight over our
valley, sealing us in like a coffin lid.
‘Er, Percy…?’ Grover said. ‘We don’t use the c-word to describe the Lord of
the Sky.’
‘Perhaps paranoid,’ Chiron suggested. ‘Then again, Poseidon has tried to
unseat Zeus before. I believe that was question thirty-eight on your final
exam…’ He looked at me as if he actually expected me to remember question
thirty-eight.
How could anyone accuse me of stealing a god’s weapon? I couldn’t even
steal a slice of pizza from Gabe’s poker party without getting busted. Chiron was
waiting for an answer.
‘Something about a golden net?’ I guessed. ‘Poseidon and Hera and a few
other gods… they, like, trapped Zeus and wouldn’t let him out until he promised
to be a better ruler, right?’
‘Correct,’ Chiron said. ‘And Zeus has never trusted Poseidon since. Of course,
Poseidon denies stealing the master bolt. He took great offence at the accusation.
The two have been arguing back and forth for months, threatening war. And
now, you’ve come along – the proverbial last straw.’
‘But I’m just a kid!’
‘Percy,’ Grover cut in, ‘if you were Zeus, and you already thought your
brother was plotting to overthrow you, then your brother suddenly admitted he
had broken the sacred oath he took after World War II, that he’s fathered a new
mortal hero who might be used as a weapon against you… Wouldn’t that put a
twist in your toga?’
‘But I didn’t do anything. Poseidon – my dad – he didn’t really have this
master bolt stolen, did he?’
Chiron sighed. ‘Most thinking observers would agree that thievery is not
Poseidon’s style. But the sea god is too proud to try convincing Zeus of that.
Zeus has demanded that Poseidon return the bolt by the summer solstice. That’s
June twenty-first, ten days from now. Poseidon wants an apology for being
called a thief by the same date. I hoped that diplomacy might prevail, that Hera
or Demeter or Hestia would make the two brothers see sense. But your arrival
has inflamed Zeus’s temper. Now neither god will back down. Unless someone
intervenes, unless the master bolt is found and returned to Zeus before the
solstice, there will be war. And do you know what a full-fledged war would look
like, Percy?’
‘Bad?’ I guessed.
‘Imagine the world in chaos. Nature at war with itself. Olympians forced to
choose sides between Zeus and Poseidon. Destruction. Carnage. Millions dead.
Western civilization turned into a battleground so big it will make the Trojan
War look like a water-balloon fight.’
‘Bad,’ I repeated.
‘And you, Percy Jackson, would be the first to feel Zeus’s wrath.’
It started to rain. Volleyball players stopped their game and stared in stunned
silence at the sky.
I had brought this storm to Half-Blood Hill. Zeus was punishing the whole
camp because of me. I was furious.
‘So I have to find the stupid bolt,’ I said. ‘And return it to Zeus.’
‘What better peace offering,’ Chiron said, ‘than to have the son of Poseidon
return Zeus’s property?’
‘If Poseidon doesn’t have it, where is the thing?’
‘I believe I know.’ Chiron’s expression was grim. ‘Part of a prophecy I had
years ago… well, some of the lines make sense to me, now. But before I can say
more, you must officially take up the quest. You must seek the counsel of the
Oracle.’
‘Why can’t you tell me where the bolt is beforehand?’
‘Because if I did, you would be too afraid to accept the challenge.’
I swallowed. ‘Good reason.’
‘You agree then?’
I looked at Grover, who nodded encouragingly.
Easy for him. I was the one Zeus wanted to kill.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘It’s better than being turned into a dolphin.’
‘Then it’s time you consulted the Oracle,’ Chiron said. ‘Go upstairs, Percy
Jackson, to the attic. When you come back down, assuming you’re still sane, we
will talk more.’
Four flights up, the stairs ended under a green trapdoor.
I pulled the cord. The door swung down, and a wooden ladder clattered into
place.
The warm air from above smelled like mildew and rotten wood and something
else… a smell I remembered from biology class. Reptiles. The smell of snakes.
I held my breath and climbed.
The attic was filled with Greek hero junk: armour stands covered in cobwebs;
once-bright shields pitted with rust; old leather steamer trunks plastered with
stickers saying ITHAKA, CIRCE’S ISLE and LAND OF THE AMAZONS. One
long table was stacked with glass jars filled with pickled things– severed hairy
claws, huge yellow eyes, various other parts of monsters. A dusty mounted
trophy on the wall looked like a giant snake’s head, but with horns and a full set
of shark’s teeth. The plaque read: HYDRA HEAD NO. I, WOODSTOCK, NY,
1969.
By the window, sitting on a wooden tripod stool, was the most gruesome
memento of all: a mummy. Not the wrapped-in-cloth kind, but a human female
body shrivelled to a husk. She wore a tie-dyed sundress, lots of beaded
necklaces, and a headband over long black hair. The skin of her face was thin
and leathery over her skull, and her eyes were glassy white slits, as if the real
eyes had been replaced by marbles; she’d been dead a long, long time.
Looking at her sent chills up my back. And that was before she sat up on her
stool and opened her mouth. A green mist poured from the mummy’s mouth,
coiling over the floor in thick tendrils, hissing like twenty-thousand snakes. I
stumbled over myself trying to get to the trapdoor, but it slammed shut. Inside
my head, I heard a voice, slithering into one ear and coiling around my brain: I
am the spirit of Delphi, speaker of the prophecies of Phoebus Apollo, slayer of
the mighty Python. Approach, seeker, and ask.
I wanted to say, No thanks, wrong door, just looking for the bathroom. But I
forced myself to take a deep breath.
The mummy wasn’t alive. She was some kind of gruesome receptacle for
something else, the power that was now swirling around me in the green mist.
But its presence didn’t feel evil, like my demonic maths teacher Mrs Dodds or
the Minotaur. It felt more like the Three Fates I’d seen knitting the yarn outside
the highway fruit stand: ancient, powerful and definitely not human. But not
particularly interested in killing me, either.
I got up the courage to ask, ‘What is my destiny?’
The mist swirled more thickly, collecting right in front of me and around the
table with the pickled monster-part jars. Suddenly there were four men sitting
around the table, playing cards. Their faces became clearer. It was Smelly Gabe
and his buddies.
My fists clenched, though I knew this poker party couldn’t be real. It was an
illusion, made out of mist.
Gabe turned towards me and spoke in the rasping voice of the Oracle: You
shall go west, and face the god who has turned.
His buddy on the right looked up and said in the same voice: You shall find what
was stolen, and see it safely returned.
The guy on the left threw in two poker chips, then said: You shall be betrayed by
one who calls you a friend.
Finally, Eddie, our building super, delivered the worst line of all: And you shall
fail to save what matters most, in the end.
The figures began to dissolve. At first I was too stunned to say anything, but as
the mist retreated, coiling into a huge green serpent and slithering back into the
mouth of the mummy, I cried, ‘Wait! What do you mean? What friend? What
will I fail to save?’
The tail of the mist snake disappeared into the mummy’s mouth. She reclined
back against the wall. Her mouth closed tight, as if it hadn’t been open in a
hundred years. The attic was silent again, abandoned, nothing but a room full of
mementos.
I got the feeling that I could stand here until I had cobwebs, too, and I
wouldn’t learn anything else.
My audience with the Oracle was over.
‘Well?’ Chiron asked me.
I slumped into a chair at the pinochle table. ‘She said I would retrieve what
was stolen.’
Grover sat forward, chewing excitedly on the remains of a Diet Coke can.
‘That’s great!’
‘What did the Oracle say exactly?’ Chiron pressed. ‘This is important.’
My ears were still tingling from the reptilian voice. ‘She… she said I would
go west and face a god who had turned. I would retrieve what was stolen and see
it safely returned.’
‘I knew it,’ Grover said.
Chiron didn’t look satisfied. ‘Anything else?’
I didn’t want to tell him.
What friend would betray me? I didn’t have that many.
And the last line – I would fail to save what mattered most. What kind of
Oracle would send me on a quest and tell me, Oh, by the way, you’ll fail.
How could I confess that?
‘No,’ I said. ‘That’s about it.’
He studied my face. ‘Very well, Percy. But know this: the Oracle’s words
often have double meanings. Don’t dwell on them too much. The truth is not
always clear until events come to pass.’
I got the feeling he knew I was holding back something bad, and he was trying
to make me feel better.
‘Okay,’ I said, anxious to change topics. ‘So where do I go? Who’s this god in
the west?’
‘Ah, think, Percy’ Chiron said. ‘If Zeus and Poseidon weaken each other in a
war, who stands to gain?’
‘Somebody else who wants to take over?’ I guessed.
‘Yes, quite. Someone who harbours a grudge, who has been unhappy with his
lot since the world was divided aeons ago, whose kingdom would grow powerful
with the deaths of millions. Someone who hates his brothers for forcing him into
an oath to have no more children, an oath that both of them have now broken.’
I thought about my dreams, the evil voice that had spoken from under the
ground. ‘Hades.’
Chiron nodded. ‘The Lord of the Dead is the only possibility.’
A scrap of aluminium dribbled out of Grover’s mouth. ‘Whoa, wait. Wh-
what?’
‘A Fury came after Percy,’ Chiron reminded him. ‘She watched the young
man until she was sure of his identity, then tried to kill him. Furies obey only one
lord: Hades.’
‘Yes, but – but Hades hates all heroes,’ Grover protested. ‘Especially if he has
found out Percy is a son of Poseidon…’
‘A hellhound got into the forest,’ Chiron continued. ‘Those can only be
summoned from the Fields of Punishment, and it had to be summoned by
someone within the camp. Hades must have a spy here. He must suspect
Poseidon will try to use Percy to clear his name. Hades would very much like to
kill this young half-blood before he can take on the quest.’
‘Great,’ I muttered. ‘That’s two major gods who want to kill me.’
‘But a quest to…’ Grover swallowed. ‘I mean, couldn’t the master bolt be in
some place like Maine? Maine’s very nice this time of year.’
‘Hades sent a minion to steal the master bolt,’ Chiron insisted. ‘He hid it in the
Underworld, knowing full well that Zeus would blame Poseidon. I don’t pretend
to understand the Lord of the Dead’s motives perfectly, or why he chose this
time to start a war, but one thing is certain. Percy must go to the Underworld,
find the master bolt, and reveal the truth.’
A strange fire burned in my stomach. The weirdest thing was: it wasn’t fear. It
was anticipation. The desire for revenge. Hades had tried to kill me three times
so far, with the Fury, the Minotaur and the hellhound. It was his fault my mother
had disappeared in a flash of light. Now he was trying to frame me and my dad
for a theft we hadn’t committed.
I was ready to take him on.
Besides, if my mother was in the Underworld…
Whoa, boy, said the small part of my brain that was still sane. You’re a kid.
Hades is a god.
Grover was trembling. He’d started eating pinochle cards like potato crisps.
The poor guy needed to complete a quest with me so he could get his
searcher’s licence, whatever that was, but how could I ask him to do this quest,
especially when the Oracle said I was destined to fail? This was suicide.
‘Look, if we know it’s Hades,’ I told Chiron, ‘why can’t we just tell the other
gods? Zeus or Poseidon could go down to the Underworld and bust some heads.’
‘Suspecting and knowing are not the same,’ Chiron said. ‘Besides, even if the
other gods suspect Hades – and I imagine Poseidon does – they couldn’t retrieve
the bolt themselves. Gods cannot cross each other’s territories except by
invitation. That is another ancient rule. Heroes, on the other hand, have certain
privileges. They can go anywhere, challenge anyone, as long as they’re bold
enough and strong enough to do it. No god can be held responsible for a hero’s
actions. Why do you think the gods always operate through humans?’
‘You’re saying I’m being used.’
‘I’m saying it’s no accident Poseidon has claimed you now. It’s a very risky
gamble, but he’s in a desperate situation. He needs you.’
My dad needs me.
Emotions rolled around inside me like bits of glass in a kaleidoscope. I didn’t
know whether to feel resentful or grateful or happy or angry. Poseidon had
ignored me for twelve years. Now suddenly he needed me.
I looked at Chiron. ‘You’ve known I was Poseidon’s son all along, haven’t
you?’
‘I had my suspicions. As I said… I’ve spoken to the Oracle, too.’
I got the feeling there was a lot he wasn’t telling me about his prophecy, but I
decided I couldn’t worry about that right now. After all, I was holding back
information too.
‘So let me get this straight,’ I said. ‘I’m supposed go to the Underworld and
confront the Lord of the Dead.’
‘Check,’ Chiron said.
‘Find the most powerful weapon in the universe.’
‘Check.’
‘And get it back to Olympus before the summer solstice, in ten days.’
‘That’s about right.’
I looked at Grover, who gulped down the ace of hearts.
‘Did I mention that Maine is very nice this time of year?’ he asked weakly.
‘You don’t have to go,’ I told him. ‘I can’t ask that of you.’
‘Oh…’ He shifted his hooves. ‘No… it’s just that satyrs and underground
places… well…’
He took a deep breath, then stood, brushing the shredded cards and aluminium
bits off his T-shirt. ‘You saved my life, Percy. If… if you’re serious about
wanting me along, I won’t let you down.’
I felt so relieved I wanted to cry, though I didn’t think that would be very
heroic. Grover was the only friend I’d ever had for longer than a few months. I
wasn’t sure what good a satyr could do against the forces of the dead, but I felt
better knowing he’d be with me.
‘All the way, G-man.’ I turned to Chiron. ‘So where do we go? The Oracle
just said to go west.’
‘The entrance to the Underworld is always in the west. It moves from age to
age, just like Olympus. Right now, of course, it’s in America.’
‘Where?’
Chiron looked surprised. ‘I thought that would be obvious enough. The
entrance to the Underworld is in Los Angeles.’
‘Oh,’ I said. ‘Naturally. So we just get on a plane –’
‘No!’ Grover shrieked. ‘Percy, what are you thinking? Have you ever been on
a plane in your life?’
I shook my head, feeling embarrassed. My mom had never taken me
anywhere by plane. She’d always said we didn’t have the money. Besides, her
parents had died in a plane crash.
‘Percy, think,’ Chiron said. ‘You are the son of the Sea God. Your father’s
bitterest rival is Zeus, Lord of the Sky. Your mother knew better than to trust you
in an aeroplane. You would be in Zeus’s domain. You would never come down
again alive.’
Overhead, lightning crackled. Thunder boomed.
‘Okay,’ I said, determined not to look at the storm. ‘So, I’ll travel overland.’
‘That’s right,’ Chiron said. ‘Two companions may accompany you. Grover is
one. The other has already volunteered, if you will accept her help.’
‘Gee,’ I said, feigning surprise. ‘Who else would be stupid enough to
volunteer for a quest like this?’
The air shimmered behind Chiron.
Annabeth became visible, stuffing her Yankees cap into her back pocket.
‘I’ve been waiting a long time for a quest, Seaweed Brain,’ she said. ‘Athena
is no fan of Poseidon, but if you’re going to save the world, I’m the best person
to keep you from messing up.’
‘If you do say so yourself,’ I said. ‘I suppose you have a plan, Wise Girl?’
Her cheeks coloured. ‘Do you want my help or not?’
The truth was, I did. I needed all the help I could get.
‘A trio,’ I said. ‘That’ll work.’
‘Excellent,’ Chiron said. ‘This afternoon, we can take you as far as the bus
terminal in Manhattan. After that, you are on your own.’
Lightning flashed. Rain poured down on the meadows that were never
supposed to have violent weather.
‘No time to waste,’ Chiron said. ‘I think you should all get packing.’