CHAPTER 17: I Put On A Few Million Extra Kilograms
The horrible thing was: I could see the family resemblance. Atlas had the same
regal expression as Zoë, the same cold, proud look in his eyes that Zoë
sometimes got when she was mad, though on him it just looked evil. He was all
the things I’d originally disliked about Zoë, with none of the good I’d come to
appreciate.
‘Let Artemis go,’ Zoë demanded.
Atlas walked closer to the chained goddess. ‘Perhaps you’d like to take the
sky for her, then? Be my guest.’
Zoë opened her mouth to speak, but Artemis said, ‘No! Do not offer, Zoë! I
forbid you.’
Atlas smirked. He knelt next to Artemis and tried to touch her face, but the
goddess bit at him, almost taking off his fingers.
‘Hoo-hoo,’ Atlas chuckled. ‘You see, daughter? Lady Artemis likes her new
job. I think I will have all the Olympians take turns carrying my burden, once
Lord Kronos rules again, and this is the centre of our palace. It will teach those
weaklings some humility.’
I looked at Annabeth. She was desperately trying to tell me something. She
motioned her head towards Luke. But all I could do was stare at her. I hadn’t
noticed before, but something about her had changed. Her blonde hair was now
streaked with grey.
‘From holding the sky,’ Thalia muttered, as if she’d read my mind. ‘The
weight should’ve killed her.’
‘I don’t understand,’ I said. ‘Why can’t Artemis just let go of the sky?’
Atlas laughed. ‘How little you understand, young one. This is the point where
the sky and the earth first met, where Ouranos and Gaia first brought forth their
mighty children, the Titans. The sky still yearns to embrace the earth. Someone
must hold it at bay, or else it would crush down upon this place, instantly
flattening the mountain and everything within a hundred leagues. Once you have
taken the burden, there is no escape.’ Atlas smiled. ‘Unless someone else takes it
from you.’
He approached us, studying Thalia and me. ‘So these are the best heroes of the
age, eh? Not much of a challenge.’
‘Fight us,’ I said. ‘And let’s see.’
‘Have the gods taught you nothing? An immortal does not fight a mere mortal
directly. It is beneath our dignity. I will have Luke crush you instead.’
‘So you’re another coward,’ I said.
Atlas’s eyes glowed with hatred. With difficulty, he turned his attention to
Thalia.
‘As for you, daughter of Zeus, it seems Luke was wrong about you.’
‘I wasn’t wrong,’ Luke managed. He looked terribly weak, and he spoke every
word as if it were painful. If I didn’t hate his guts so much, I almost would’ve
felt sorry for him. ‘Thalia, you still can join us. Call the Ophiotaurus. It will
come to you. Look!’
He waved his hand, and next to us a pool of water appeared: a pond ringed in
black marble, big enough for the Ophiotaurus. I could imagine Bessie in that
pool. In fact, the more I thought about it, the more I was sure I could hear Bessie
mooing.
Don’t think about him! Suddenly Grover’s voice was inside my mind – the
empathy link. I could feel his emotions. He was on the verge of panic. I’m losing
Bessie. Block the thoughts!
I tried to make my mind go blank. I tried to think about basketball players,
skateboards, the different kinds of candy in my mom’s shop. Anything but
Bessie.
‘Thalia, call the Ophiotaurus,’ Luke persisted. ‘And you will be more
powerful than the gods.’
‘Luke…’ Her voice was full of pain. ‘What happened to you?’
‘Don’t you remember all those times we talked? All those times we cursed the
gods? Our fathers have done nothing for us. They have no right to rule the
world!’
Thalia shook her head. ‘Free Annabeth. Let her go.’
‘If you join me,’ Luke promised, ‘it can be like old times. The three of us
together. Fighting for a better world. Please, Thalia, if you don’t agree…’
His voice faltered. ‘It’s my last chance. He will use the other way if you don’t
agree. Please.’
I didn’t know what he meant, but the fear in his voice sounded real enough. I
believed that Luke was in danger. His life depended on Thalia’s joining his
cause. And I was afraid Thalia might believe it, too.
‘Do not, Thalia,’ Zoë warned. ‘We must fight them.’
Luke waved his hand again, and a fire appeared. A bronze brazier, just like the
one at camp. A sacrificial flame.
‘Thalia,’ I said. ‘No.’
Behind Luke, the golden sarcophagus began to glow. As it did, I saw images
in the mist all around us: black marble walls rising, the ruins becoming whole, a
terrible and beautiful palace rising around us, made of fear and shadow.
‘We will raise Mount Othrys right here,’ Luke promised, in a voice so strained
it was hardly his. ‘Once more, it will be stronger and greater than Olympus.
Look, Thalia. We are not weak.’
He pointed towards the ocean, and my heart fell. Marching up the side of the
mountain, from the beach where the Princess Andromeda was docked, was a
great army. Dracaenae and Laestrygonians, monsters and half-bloods, hell
hounds, harpies and other things I couldn’t even name. The whole ship must’ve
been emptied, because there were hundreds, many more than I’d seen on board
last summer. And they were marching towards us. In a few minutes, they would
be here.
‘This is only a taste of what is to come,’ Luke said. ‘Soon we will be ready to
storm Camp Half-Blood. And after that, Olympus itself. All we need is your
help.’
For a terrible moment, Thalia hesitated. She gazed at Luke, her eyes full of
pain, as if the only thing she wanted in the world was to believe him. Then she
levelled her spear. ‘You aren’t Luke. I don’t know you any more.’
‘Yes, you do, Thalia,’ he pleaded. ‘Please. Don’t make me… Don’t make him
destroy you.’
There was no time. If that army got to the top of the hill, we would be
overwhelmed. I met Annabeth’s eyes again. She nodded.
I looked at Thalia and Zoë, and I decided it wouldn’t be the worst thing in the
world to die fighting with friends like this.
‘Now,’ I said.
Together, we charged.
Thalia went straight for Luke. The power of her shield was so great that his
dragon-women bodyguards fled in a panic, dropping the golden coffin and
leaving him alone. But despite his sickly appearance, Luke was still quick with
his sword. He snarled like a wild animal and counter-attacked. When his sword
Backbiter met Thalia’s shield, a ball of lightning erupted between them, frying
the air with yellow tendrils of power.
As for me, I did the stupidest thing of my life, which is saying a lot. I attacked
the Titan Lord Atlas.
He laughed as I approached. A huge javelin appeared in his hands. His silk
suit melted into full Greek battle armour. ‘Go on, then!’
‘Percy!’ Zoë said. ‘Beware!’
I knew what she was warning me about. Chiron had told me long ago:
Immortals are constrained by ancient rules. But a hero can go anywhere,
challenge anyone, as long as he has the nerve. Once I attacked, Atlas was free to
retaliate directly, with all his might.
I swung my sword, and Atlas knocked me aside with the shaft of his javelin. I
flew through the air and slammed into a black wall. It wasn’t Mist any more. The
palace was rising, brick by brick. It was becoming real.
‘Fool!’ Atlas screamed gleefully, swatting aside one of Zoë’s arrows. ‘Did you
think, simply because you could challenge that petty war god, that you could
stand up to me?’
The mention of Ares sent a jolt through me. I shook off my daze and charged
again. If I could get to that pool of water I could double my strength.
The javelin’s point slashed towards me like a scythe. I raised Riptide, planning
to cut off his weapon at the shaft, but my arm felt like lead. My sword suddenly
weighed a ton.
And I remembered Ares’s warning, spoken on the beach in Los Angeles so
long ago: When you need it most, your sword will fail you.
Not now! I pleaded. But it was no good. I tried to dodge, but the javelin caught
me in the chest and sent me flying like a rag doll. I slammed into the ground, my
head spinning. I looked up and found I was at the feet of Artemis, still straining
under the weight of the sky.
‘Run, boy,’she told me. ‘You must run!’
Atlas was taking his time coming towards me. My sword was gone. It had
skittered away over the edge of the cliff. It might reappear in my pocket – maybe
in a few seconds – but it didn’t matter. I’d be dead by then. Luke and Thalia
were fighting like demons, lightning crackling around them. Annabeth was on
the ground, desperately struggling to free her hands.
‘Die, little hero,’ Atlas said.
He raised his javelin to impale me.
‘No!’ Zoë yelled, and a volley of silver arrows sprouted from the armpit chink
in Atlas’s armour.
‘ARGH!’ He bellowed and turned towards his daughter.
I reached down and felt Riptide back in my pocket. I couldn’t fight Atlas,
even with a sword. And then a chill went down my spine. I remembered the
words of the prophecy: The Titan’s curse must one withstand. I couldn’t hope to
beat Atlas. But there was someone else who might stand a chance.
‘The sky,’ I told the goddess. ‘Give it to me.’
‘No, boy,’ Artemis said. Her forehead was beaded with metallic sweat, like
quicksilver. ‘You don’t know what you’re asking. It will crush you!’
‘Annabeth took it!’
‘She barely survived. She had the spirit of a true huntress. You will not last so
long.’
‘I’ll die anyway,’ I said. ‘Give me the weight of the sky!’
I didn’t wait for her answer. I took out Riptide and slashed through her chains.
Then I stepped next to her and braced myself on one knee – holding up my
hands – and touched the cold, heavy clouds. For a moment, Artemis and I bore
the weight together. It was the heaviest thing I’d ever felt, as if I were being
crushed under a thousand trucks. I wanted to black out from the pain, but I
breathed deeply. I can do this.
Then Artemis slipped out from under the burden, and I held it alone.
Afterwards, I tried many times to explain what it felt like. I couldn’t.
Every muscle in my body turned to fire. My bones felt like they were melting.
I wanted to scream, but I didn’t have the strength to open my mouth. I began to
sink, lower and lower to the ground, the sky’s weight crushing me.
Fight back! Grover’s voice said inside my head. Don’t give up.
I concentrated on breathing. If I could just keep the sky aloft a few more
seconds. I thought about Bianca, who had given her life so we could get here. If
she could do that, I could hold the sky.
My vision turned fuzzy. Everything was tinged with red. I caught glimpses of
the battle, but I wasn’t sure if I was seeing clearly. There was Atlas in full battle
armour, jabbing with his javelin, laughing insanely as he fought. And Artemis, a
blur of silver. She had two wicked hunting knives, each as long as her arm, and
she slashed wildly at the Titan, dodging and leaping with unbelievable grace.
She seemed to change form as she manoeuvred. She was a tiger, a gazelle, a
bear, a falcon. Or perhaps that was just my fevered brain. Zoë shot arrows at her
father, aiming for the chinks in his armour. He roared in pain each time one
found its mark, but they affected him like bee stings. He just got madder and
kept fighting.
Thalia and Luke went spear on sword, lightning still flashing around them.
Thalia pressed Luke back with the aura of her shield. Even he was not immune
to it. He retreated, wincing and growling in frustration.
‘Yield!’ Thalia yelled. ‘You never could beat me, Luke.’
He bared his teeth. ‘We’ll see, my old friend.’
Sweat poured down my face. My hands were slippery. My shoulders would’ve
screamed with agony if they could. I felt like the vertebrae in my spine were
being welded together by a blowtorch.
Atlas advanced, pressing Artemis. She was fast, but his strength was
unstoppable. His javelin slammed into the earth where Artemis had been a split
second before, and a fissure opened in the rocks. He leaped over it and kept
pursuing her. She was leading him back towards me.
Get ready, she spoke in my mind.
I was losing the ability to think through the pain. My response was something
like Agggghh-owwwwwwww.
‘You fight well for a girl.’ Atlas laughed. ‘But you are no match for me.’
He feinted with the tip of his javelin and Artemis dodged. I saw the trick
coming. Atlas’s javelin swept round and knocked Artemis’s legs off the ground.
She fell, and Atlas brought up his javelin tip for the kill.
‘No!’ Zoë screamed. She leaped between her father and Artemis and shot an
arrow straight into the Titan’s forehead, where it lodged like a unicorn’s horn.
Atlas bellowed in rage. He swept aside his daughter with the back of his hand,
sending her flying into the black rocks.
I wanted to shout her name, run to her aid, but I couldn’t speak or move. I
couldn’t even see where Zoë had landed. Then Atlas turned on Artemis with a
look of triumph in his face. Artemis seemed to be wounded. She didn’t get up.
‘The first blood in a new war,’ Atlas gloated. And he stabbed downward.
As fast as thought, Artemis grabbed his javelin shaft. It hit the earth right next
to her and she pulled backwards, using the javelin like a lever, kicking the Titan
Lord and sending him flying over her. I saw him coming down on top of me and
I realized what would happen. I loosened my grip on the sky, and as Atlas
slammed into me I didn’t try to hold on. I let myself be pushed out of the way
and rolled for all I was worth.
The weight of the sky dropped onto Atlas’s back, almost smashing him flat
until he managed to get to his knees, struggling to get out from under the
crushing weight of the sky. But it was too late.
‘NOOOOOO!’ He bellowed so hard it shook the mountain. ‘NOT AGAIN!’
Atlas was trapped under his old burden.
I tried to stand and fell back again, dazed from pain. My body felt like it was
burning up.
Thalia backed Luke to the edge of a cliff, but still they fought on, next to the
golden coffin. Thalia had tears in her eyes. Luke had a bloody slash across his
chest and his pale face glistened with sweat.
He lunged at Thalia and she slammed him with her shield. Luke’s sword spun
out of his hands and clattered to the rocks. Thalia put her spear point to his
throat.
For a moment, there was silence.
‘Well?’ Luke asked. He tried to hide it, but I could hear fear in his voice.
Thalia trembled with fury.
Behind her, Annabeth came scrambling, finally free from her bonds. Her face
was bruised and streaked with dirt. ‘Don’t kill him!’
‘He’s a traitor,’ Thalia said. ‘A traitor!’
In my daze, I realized that Artemis was no longer with me. She had run off
towards the black rocks where Zoë had fallen.
‘We’ll bring Luke back,’ Annabeth pleaded. ‘To Olympus. He… he’ll be
useful.’
‘Is that what you want, Thalia?’ Luke sneered. ‘To go back to Olympus in
triumph? To please your dad?’
Thalia hesitated, and Luke made a desperate grab for her spear.
‘No!’ Annabeth shouted. But it was too late. Without thinking, Thalia kicked
Luke away. He lost his balance, terror on his face, and then he fell.
‘Luke!’ Annabeth screamed.
We rushed to the cliff’s edge. Below us, the army from the Princess
Andromeda had stopped in amazement. They were staring at Luke’s broken form
on the rocks. Despite how much I hated him, I couldn’t stand to see it. I wanted
to believe he was still alive, but that was impossible. The fall was fifteen metres
at least, and he wasn’t moving.
One of the giants looked up and growled, ‘Kill them!’
Thalia was stiff with grief, tears streaming down her cheeks. I pulled her back
as a wave of javelins sailed over our heads. We ran for the rocks, ignoring the
curses and threats of Atlas as we passed.
‘Artemis!’ I yelled.
The goddess looked up, her face almost as grief-stricken as Thalia’s. Zoë lay
in the goddess’s arms. She was breathing. Her eyes were open. But still…
‘The wound is poisoned,’ Artemis said.
‘Atlas poisoned her?’ I asked.
‘No,’ the goddess said. ‘Not Atlas.’
She showed us the wound in Zoë’s side. I’d almost forgotten her scrape with
Ladon the dragon. The bite was much worse than Zoë had let on. I could barely
look at the wound. She had charged into battle against her father with a horrible
cut already sapping her strength.
‘The stars,’ Zoë murmured. ‘I cannot see them.’
‘Nectar and ambrosia,’ I said. ‘Come on! We have to get her some.’
No one moved. Grief hung in the air. The army of Kronos was just below the
rise. Even Artemis was too shocked to stir. We might’ve met our doom right
there, but then I heard a strange buzzing noise.
Just as the army of monsters came over the hill, a Sopwith Camel swooped
down out of the sky.
‘Get away from my daughter!’ Dr Chase called down, and his machine guns
burst into life, peppering the ground with bullet holes and startling the whole
group of monsters into scattering.
‘Dad?’ yelled Annabeth in disbelief.
‘Run!’ he called back, his voice growing fainter as the biplane swooped by.
This shook Artemis out of her grief. She stared up at the antique plane, which
was now banking round for another strafe.
‘A brave man,’ Artemis said with grudging approval. ‘Come. We must get Zoë
away from here.’
She raised her hunting horn to her lips, and its clear sound echoed down the
valleys of Marin. Zoë’s eyes were fluttering.
‘Hang in there!’ I told her. ‘It’ll be all right!’
The Sopwith Camel swooped down again. A few giants threw javelins, and
one flew straight between the wings of the plane, but the machine guns blazed. I
realized with amazement that somehow Dr Chase must’ve got hold of celestial
bronze to fashion his bullets. The first row of snake women wailed as the
machine gun’s volley blew them into sulphurous yellow powder.
‘That’s… my dad!’ Annabeth said in amazement.
We didn’t have time to admire his flying. The giants and snake women were
already recovering from their surprise. Dr Chase would be in trouble soon.
Just then, the moonlight brightened, and a silver chariot appeared from the
sky, drawn by the most beautiful deer I had ever seen. It landed right next to us.
‘Get in,’ Artemis said.
Annabeth helped me get Thalia on board. Then I helped Artemis with Zoë. We
wrapped Zoë in a blanket as Artemis pulled the reins and the chariot sped away
from the mountain, straight into the air.
‘Like Santa Claus’s sleigh,’ I murmured, still dazed with pain.
Artemis took time to look back at me. ‘Indeed, young half-blood. And where
do you think that legend came from?’
Seeing us safely away, Dr Chase turned his biplane and followed us like an
honour guard. It must have been one of the strangest sights ever, even for the
Bay Area: a silver flying chariot pulled by deer, escorted by a Sopwith Camel.
Behind us, the army of Kronos roared in anger as they gathered on the summit
of Mount Tamalpais, but the loudest sound was the voice of Atlas, bellowing
curses against the gods as he struggled under the weight of the sky.