CHAPTER 8: I Take The Worst Bath Ever
My sword reappeared in my pocket.
Yeah, great timing. Now I could attack the walls all I wanted. My cell had no
bars, no windows, not even a door. The skeletal guards shoved me straight
through a wall and it became solid behind me. I wasn’t sure if the room was
airtight. Probably. Hades’ dungeon was meant for dead people, and they don’t
breathe. So forget fifty or sixty years. I’d be dead in fifty or sixty minutes.
Meanwhile, if Hades wasn’t lying, some big trap was going to be sprung in New
York by the end of the day, and there was absolutely nothing I could do about it.
I sat on the cold stone floor feeling miserable.
I don’t remember dozing off. Then again it must’ve been about seven in the
morning, mortal time, and I’d been through a lot.
I dreamed I was on the porch of Rachel’s beach house in St Thomas. The sun
was rising over the Caribbean. Dozens of wooded islands dotted the sea and
white sails cut across the water. The smell of salt air made me wonder if I would
ever see the ocean again.
Rachel’s parents sat at the patio table while a personal chef fixed them
omelettes. Mr Dare was dressed in a white linen suit. He was reading the Wall
Street Journal. The lady across the table was probably Mrs Dare, though all I
could see of her were hot pink fingernails and the cover of Condé Nast Traveller.
Why she’d be reading about vacations while she was on vacation, I wasn’t sure.
Rachel stood at the porch railing and sighed. She wore Bermuda shorts and
her van Gogh T-shirt. (Yeah, Rachel was trying to teach me about art, but don’t
get too impressed. I only remembered the dude’s name because he cut his ear
off.)
I wondered if she were thinking about me, and how much it sucked that I
wasn’t with them on vacation. I know that’s what I was thinking.
Then the scene changed. I was in St Louis, standing downtown under the
Arch. I’d been there before. In fact I’d almost fallen to my death there before.
Over the city, a thunderstorm boiled – a wall of absolute black with lightning
streaking across the sky. A few blocks away, swarms of emergency vehicles
gathered with their lights flashing. A column of dust rose from a mound of
rubble, which I realized was a collapsed skyscraper.
A nearby reporter was yelling into her microphone: ‘Officials are describing
this as a structural failure, Dan, though no one seems to know if it is related to
the storm conditions.’
Wind whipped her hair. The temperature was dropping rapidly – like ten
degrees just since I’d been standing there.
‘Thankfully the building had been abandoned for demolition,’ she said. ‘But
police have evacuated all nearby buildings for fear the collapse might trigger –’
She faltered as a mighty groan cut through the sky. A blast of lightning hit the
centre of the darkness. The entire city shook. The air glowed and every hair on
my body stood up. The blast was so powerful I knew it could only be one thing:
Zeus’s master bolt. It should have vaporized its target, but the dark cloud only
staggered backwards. A smoky fist appeared out of the clouds. It smashed
another tower and the whole thing collapsed like children’s blocks.
The reporter screamed. People ran through the streets. Emergency lights
flashed. I saw a streak of silver in the sky – a chariot pulled by reindeer, but it
wasn’t Santa Claus driving. It was Artemis riding the storm, shooting shafts of
moonlight into the darkness. A fiery golden comet crossed her path – maybe her
brother, Apollo.
One thing was clear: Typhon had made it to the Mississippi River. He was
halfway across the U.S., leaving destruction in his wake, and the gods were
barely slowing him down.
The mountain of darkness loomed above me. A foot the size of Yankee
Stadium was about to smash me when a voice hissed: ‘Percy!’
I lunged out blindly. Before I was fully awake, I had Nico pinned to the floor
of the cell with the edge of my sword at his throat.
‘Want – to – rescue,’ he choked.
Anger woke me up fast. ‘Oh, yeah? And why should I trust you?’
‘No – choice?’ he gagged.
I wished he hadn’t said something logical like that. I let him go.
Nico curled into a ball and made retching sounds while his throat recovered.
Finally he got to his feet, eyeing my sword warily. His own blade was sheathed.
I suppose if he’d wanted to kill me, he could’ve done it while I slept. Still, I
didn’t trust him.
‘We have to get out of here,’ he said.
‘Why?’ I said. ‘Does your dad want to talk to me again?’
He winced. ‘Percy, I swear on the River Styx, I didn’t know what he was
planning.’
‘You know what your dad is like!’
‘He tricked me. He promised –’ Nico held up his hands. ‘Look … right now,
we need to leave. I put the guards to sleep, but it won’t last.’
I wanted to strangle him again. Unfortunately, he was right. We didn’t have
time to argue and I couldn’t escape on my own. He pointed at the wall. A whole
section vanished, revealing a corridor.
‘Come on.’ Nico led the way.
I wished I had Annabeth’s invisibility hat, but as it turned out I didn’t need it.
Every time we came to a skeleton guard, Nico just pointed at it and its glowing
eyes dimmed. Unfortunately, the more Nico did it, the more tired he seemed. We
walked through a maze of corridors filled with guards. By the time we reached a
kitchen staffed by skeletal cooks and servants, I was practically carrying Nico.
He managed to put all the dead to sleep but nearly passed out himself. I dragged
him out the servants’ entrance and into the Fields of Asphodel.
I almost felt relieved until I heard the sound of bronze gongs high in the
castle.
‘Alarms,’ Nico murmured sleepily.
‘What do we do?’
He yawned then frowned like he was trying to remember. ‘How about …
run?’
Running with a drowsy child of Hades was more like doing a three-legged race
with a life-sized rag doll. I lugged him along, holding my sword in front of me.
The spirits of the dead made way like the celestial bronze was a blazing fire.
The sound of gongs rolled across the fields. Ahead loomed the walls of
Erebos, but the longer we walked the further away they seemed. I was about to
collapse from exhaustion when I heard a familiar ‘WOOOOOF!’
Mrs O’Leary bounded out of nowhere and ran circles around us, ready to play.
‘Good girl!’ I said. ‘Can you give us a ride to the Styx?’
The word ‘Styx’ got her excited. She probably thought I meant sticks. She
jumped a few times, chased her tail just to teach it who was boss and then
calmed down enough for me to push Nico onto her back. I climbed aboard and
she raced towards the gates. She leaped straight over the EZ-DEATH line,
sending guards sprawling and causing more alarms to blare. Cerberus barked,
but he sounded more excited than angry, like: Can I play, too?
Fortunately, he didn’t follow us, and Mrs O’Leary kept running. She didn’t
stop until we were far upriver and the fires of Erebos had disappeared in the
murk.
Nico slid off Mrs O’Leary’s back and crumpled in a heap on the black sand.
I took out a square of ambrosia – part of the emergency god-food I always
kept with me. It was a little bashed up, but Nico chewed it.
‘Uh,’ he mumbled. ‘Better.’
‘Your powers drain you too much,’ I noted.
He nodded sleepily. ‘With great power … comes great need to take a nap.
Wake me up later.’
‘Whoa, zombie dude.’ I caught him before he could pass out again. ‘We’re at
the river. You need to tell me what to do.’
I fed him the last of my ambrosia, which was a little dangerous. The stuff can
heal demigods, but it can also burn us to ashes if we eat too much. Fortunately, it
seemed to do the trick. Nico shook his head a few times and struggled to his feet.
‘My father will be coming soon,’ he said. ‘We should hurry.’
The River Styx’s current swirled with strange objects – broken toys, ripped-up
college diplomas, wilted homecoming corsages – all the dreams people had
thrown away as they’d passed from life into death. Looking at the black water, I
could think of about three million places I’d rather swim.
‘So … I just jump in?’
‘You have to prepare yourself first,’ Nico said, ‘or the river will destroy you. It
will burn away your body and soul.’
‘Sounds fun,’ I muttered.
‘This is no joke,’ Nico warned. ‘There is only one way to stay anchored to
your mortal life. You have to …’
He glanced behind me and his eyes widened. I turned and found myself face
to face with a Greek warrior.
For a second, I thought he was Ares, because this guy looked exactly like the
god of war – tall and buff, with a cruel scarred face and closely shaved black
hair. He wore a white tunic and bronze armour. He held a plumed war helm
under his arm. But his eyes were human – pale green like a shallow sea – and a
bloody arrow stuck out of his left calf, just above the ankle.
I stunk at Greek names, but even I knew the greatest warrior of all time, who
had died from a wounded heel.
‘Achilles,’ I said.
The ghost nodded. ‘I warned the other one not to follow my path. Now I will
warn you.’
‘Luke? You spoke with Luke?’
‘Do not do this,’ he said. ‘It will make you powerful. But it will also make you
weak. Your prowess in combat will be beyond any mortal, but your weaknesses,
your failings will increase as well.’
‘You mean I’ll have a bad heel?’ I said. ‘Couldn’t I just, like, wear something
besides sandals? No offence.’
He stared down at his bloody foot. ‘The heel is only my physical weakness,
demigod. My mother, Thetis, held me there when she dipped me in the Styx.
What really killed me was my own arrogance. Beware! Turn back!’
He meant it. I could hear the regret and bitterness in his voice. He was
honestly trying to save me from a terrible fate.
Then again, Luke had been here, and he hadn’t turned back.
That’s why Luke had been able to host the spirit of Kronos without his body
disintegrating. This is how he’d prepared himself, and why he seemed
impossible to kill. He had bathed in the River Styx and taken on the powers of
the greatest mortal hero, Achilles. He was invincible.
‘I have to,’ I said. ‘Otherwise I don’t stand a chance.’
Achilles lowered his head. ‘Let the gods witness I tried. Hero, if you must do
this, concentrate on your mortal point. Imagine one spot of your body that will
remain vulnerable. This is the point where your soul will anchor your body to
the world. It will be your greatest weakness, but also your only hope. No man
may be completely invulnerable. Lose sight of what keeps you mortal, and the
River Styx will burn you to ashes. You will cease to exist.’
‘I don’t suppose you could tell me Luke’s mortal point?’
He scowled. ‘Prepare yourself, foolish boy. Whether you survive this or not,
you have sealed your doom!’
With that happy thought, he vanished.
‘Percy,’ Nico said, ‘maybe he’s right.’
‘This was your idea.’
‘I know, but now that we’re here –’
‘Just wait on the shore. If anything happens to me … Well, maybe Hades will
get his wish, and you’ll be the child of the prophecy after all.’
He didn’t look pleased about that, but I didn’t care.
Before I could change my mind, I concentrated on the small of my back – a
tiny point just opposite my navel. It was well defended when I wore my armour.
It would be hard to hit by accident, and few enemies would aim for it on
purpose. No place was perfect, but this seemed right to me, and a lot more
dignified than, like, my armpit or something.
I pictured a string – a bungee cord connecting me to the world from the small
of my back. And I stepped into the river.
Imagine jumping into a pit of boiling acid. Now multiply that pain times fifty.
You still won’t be close to understanding what it felt like to swim in the Styx. I
planned to walk in slow and courageous like a real hero. As soon as the water
touched my legs, my muscles turned to jelly and I fell face first into the current.
I submerged completely. For the first time in my life, I couldn’t breathe
underwater. I finally understood the panic of drowning. Every nerve in my body
burned. I was dissolving in the water. I saw faces – Rachel, Grover, Tyson, my
mother – but they faded as soon as they appeared.
‘Percy,’ my mom said. ‘I give you my blessing.’
‘Be safe, brother!’ Tyson pleaded.
‘Enchiladas!’ Grover said. I wasn’t sure where that came from, but it didn’t
seem to help much.
I was losing the fight. The pain was too much. My hands and feet were
melting into water, my soul being ripped from my body. I couldn’t remember
who I was. The pain of Kronos’s scythe had been nothing compared to this.
The cord, a familiar voice said. Remember your lifeline, dummy!
Suddenly there was a tug in my lower back. The current pulled at me, but it
wasn’t carrying me away any more. I imagined the string in my back, keeping
me tied to the shore.
‘Hold on, Seaweed Brain.’ It was Annabeth’s voice, much clearer now.
‘You’re not getting away from me that easily.’
The cord strengthened.
I could see Annabeth now – standing barefoot above me on the canoe-lake
pier. I’d fallen out of my canoe. That was it. She was reaching out her hand to
haul me up, and she was trying not to laugh. She wore her orange camp T-shirt
and jeans. Her hair was tucked up in her Yankees cap, which was strange,
because that should have made her invisible.
‘You are such an idiot sometimes.’ She smiled. ‘Come on. Take my hand.’
Memories came flooding back to me – sharper and more colourful. I stopped
dissolving. My name was Percy Jackson. I reached up and took Annabeth’s
hand.
Suddenly I burst out of the river. I collapsed on the sand and Nico scrambled
back in surprise.
‘Are you okay?’ he stammered. ‘Your skin. Oh, gods. You’re hurt!’
My arms were bright red. I felt like every inch of my body had been broiled
over a slow flame.
I looked around for Annabeth, though I knew she wasn’t here. It had seemed
so real.
‘I’m fine … I think.’ The colour of my skin turned back to normal. The pain
subsided. Mrs O’Leary came up and sniffed me with concern. Apparently, I
smelled really interesting.
‘Do you feel stronger?’ Nico asked.
Before I could decide what I felt, a voice boomed, ‘THERE!’
An army of the dead marched towards us. A hundred skeletal Roman
legionnaires led the way with shields and spears. Behind them came an equal
number of British redcoats with bayonets fixed. In the middle of the host, Hades
himself rode a black-and-gold chariot pulled by nightmare horses, their eyes and
manes smouldering with fire.
‘You will not escape me this time, Percy Jackson!’ Hades bellowed. ‘Destroy
him!’
‘Father, no!’ Nico shouted, but it was too late. The front line of Roman
zombies lowered their spears and advanced.
Mrs O’Leary growled and got ready to pounce. Maybe that’s what set me off.
I didn’t want them hurting my dog. Plus I was tired of Hades being a big bully. If
I were going to die, I might as well go down fighting.
I yelled and the River Styx exploded. A black tidal wave smashed into the
legionnaires. Spears and shields flew everywhere. Roman zombies began to
dissolve, smoke coming off their bronze helmets.
The redcoats lowered their bayonets, but I didn’t wait for them. I charged.
It was stupidest thing I’ve ever done. A hundred muskets fired at me – point
blank. All of them missed. I crashed into their line and started hacking with
Riptide. Bayonets jabbed. Swords slashed. Guns reloaded and fired. Nothing
touched me.
I whirled through the ranks, slashing redcoats to dust one after the other. My
mind went on autopilot: stab, dodge, cut, deflect, roll. Riptide was no longer a
sword. It was an arc of pure destruction.
I broke through the enemy line and leaped into the black chariot. Hades raised
his staff. A bolt of dark energy shot towards me, but I deflected it off my blade
and slammed into him. The god and I both tumbled out of the chariot.
The next thing I knew, my knee was planted on Hades’ chest. I was holding
the collar of his royal robes in one fist, and the tip of my sword was poised right
over his face.
Silence. The army did nothing to defend their master. I glanced back and
realized why. There was nothing left of them but weapons in the sand and piles
of smoking, empty uniforms. I had destroyed them all.
Hades swallowed. ‘Now, Jackson, listen here …’
He was immortal. There was no way I could kill him, but gods can be
wounded. I knew that firsthand, and I figured a sword in the face wouldn’t feel
too good.
‘Just because I’m a nice person,’ I snarled, ‘I’ll let you go. But first, tell me
about that trap!’
Hades melted into nothing, leaving me holding empty black robes.
I cursed and got to my feet, breathing heavily. Now that the danger was over, I
realized how tired I was. Every muscle in my body ached. I looked down at my
clothes. They were slashed to pieces and full of bullet holes, but I was fine. Not
a mark on me.
Nico’s mouth hung open. ‘You just … with a sword … you just –’
‘I think the river thing worked,’ I said.
‘Oh, gee,’ he said sarcastically. ‘You think?’
Mrs O’Leary barked happily and wagged her tail. She bounded around,
sniffing empty uniforms and hunting for bones. I lifted Hades’ robe. I could still
see the tormented faces shimmering in the fabric.
I walked to the edge of the river. ‘Be free.’
I dropped the robe in the water and watched as it swirled away, dissolving in
the current.
‘Go back to your father,’ I told Nico. ‘Tell him he owes me for letting him go.
Find out what’s going to happen to Mount Olympus and convince him to help.’
Nico stared at me. ‘I – I can’t. He’ll hate me now. I mean … even more.’
‘You have to,’ I said. ‘You owe me, too.’
His ears turned red. ‘Percy, I told you I was sorry. Please … let me come with
you. I want to fight.’
‘You’ll be more help down here.’
‘You mean you don’t trust me any more,’ he said miserably.
I didn’t answer. I didn’t know what I meant. I was too stunned by what I’d just
done in battle to think clearly.
‘Just go back to your father,’ I said, trying not to sound too harsh. ‘Work on
him. You’re the only person who might be able to get him to listen.’
‘That’s a depressing thought.’ Nico sighed. ‘All right. I’ll do my best. Besides,
he’s still hiding something from me about my mom. Maybe I can find out what.’
‘Good luck. Now Mrs O’Leary and I have to go.’
‘Where?’ Nico said.
I looked at the cave entrance and thought about the long climb back to the
world of the living. ‘To get this war started. It’s time I found Luke.’