CHAPTER 11: Grover Gets A Lamborghini
We were crossing the Potomac when we spotted the helicopter. It was a sleek
black military model just like the one we’d seen at Westover Hall. And it was
coming straight towards us.
‘They know the van,’ I said. ‘We have to ditch it.’
Zoë swerved into the fast lane. The helicopter was gaining.
‘Maybe the military will shoot it down,’ Grover said hopefully.
‘The military probably thinks it’s one of theirs,’ I said. ‘How can the General
use mortals, anyway?’
‘Mercenaries,’ Zoë said bitterly. ‘It is distasteful, but many mortals will fight
for any cause as long as they are paid.’
‘But don’t these mortals see who they’re working for?’ I asked. ‘Don’t they
notice all the monsters around them?’
Zoë shook her head. ‘I do not know how much they see through the Mist. I
doubt it would matter to them if they knew the truth. Sometimes mortals can be
more horrible than monsters.’
The helicopter kept coming, making a lot better time than we were through
D.C. traffic.
Thalia closed her eyes and prayed hard. ‘Hey, Dad. A lightning bolt would be
nice about now. Please?’
But the sky stayed grey and snowy. No sign of a helpful thunderstorm.
‘There!’ Bianca said. ‘That parking lot!’
‘We’ll be trapped,’ Zoë said.
‘Trust me,’ Bianca said.
Zoë shot across two lanes of traffic and into a mall parking lot on the south
bank of the river. We left the van and followed Bianca down some steps.
‘Subway entrance,’ Bianca said. ‘Let’s go south. Alexandria.’
‘Anything,’ Thalia agreed.
We bought tickets and got through the turnstiles, looking behind us for any
signs of pursuit. A few minutes later we were safely aboard a southbound train,
riding away from D.C. As our train came above ground, we could see the
helicopter circling the parking lot, but it didn’t come after us.
Grover let out a sigh. ‘Nice job, Bianca, thinking of the subway.’
Bianca looked pleased. ‘Yeah, well. I remembered that station from when
Nico and I came through last summer. I was really surprised to see it, because it
wasn’t here when we used to live in D.C.’
Grover frowned. ‘New? But that station looked really old.’
‘I guess,’ Bianca said. ‘But trust me, when we lived here as little kids, there
was no subway.’
Thalia sat forward. ‘Wait a minute. No subway at all?’
Bianca nodded.
Now, I knew nothing about D.C., but I didn’t see how their whole subway
system could be less than twelve years old. I guess everyone else was thinking
the same thing, because they looked pretty confused.
‘Bianca,’ Zoë said. ‘How long ago…’ Her voice faltered. The sound of the
helicopter was getting louder again.
‘We need to change trains,’ I said. ‘Next station.’
Over the next half hour, all we thought about was getting away safely. We
changed trains twice. I had no idea where we were going, but after a while we
lost the helicopter.
Unfortunately, when we finally got off the train we found ourselves at the end
of the line, in an industrial area with nothing but warehouses and railway tracks.
And snow. Lots of snow. It seemed much colder here. I was glad of my new lionfur coat.
We wandered through the railway yard, thinking there might be another
passenger train somewhere, but there were just rows and rows of freight cars,
most of which were covered in snow, like they hadn’t moved in years.
A homeless guy was standing at a trashcan fire. We must’ve looked pretty
pathetic, because he gave us a toothless grin and said, ‘Y’ all need to get warmed
up? Come on over!’
We huddled round his fire. Thalia’s teeth were chattering. She said, ‘Well this
is g-g-g-great.’
‘My hooves are frozen,’ Grover complained.
‘Feet,’ I corrected, for the sake of the homeless guy.
‘Maybe we should contact camp,’ Bianca said. ‘Chiron –’
‘No,’ Zoë said. ‘They cannot help us any more. We must finish this quest
ourselves.’
I gazed miserably around the railway yard. Somewhere, far to the west,
Annabeth was in danger. Artemis was in chains. A doomsday monster was on
the loose. And we were stuck on the outskirts of D.C. sharing a homeless
person’s fire.
‘You know,’ the homeless man said, ‘you’re never completely without
friends.’ His face was grimy and his beard tangled, but his expression seemed
kindly. ‘You kids need a train going west?’
‘Yes, sir,’ I said. ‘You know of any?’
He pointed one greasy hand.
Suddenly I noticed a freight train, gleaming and free of snow. It was one of
those automobile-carrier trains, with steel mesh curtains and a triple-deck of cars
inside. The side of the freight train said SUN WEST LINE.
‘That’s… convenient,’ Thalia said. ‘Thanks, uh…’
She turned to the homeless guy, but he was gone. The trashcan in front of us
was cold and empty, as if he’d taken the flames with him.
An hour later we were rumbling west. There was no problem about who would
drive now, because we all got our own luxury car. Zoë and Bianca were crashed
out in a Lexus on the top deck. Grover was playing race-car driver behind the
wheel of a Lamborghini. And Thalia had hot-wired the radio in a black
Mercedes SLK so she could pick up the alt rock stations from D.C.
‘Join you?’ I asked her.
She shrugged, so I climbed into the shotgun seat.
The radio was playing the White Stripes. I knew the song because it was one
of the only CDs I owned that my mom liked. She said it reminded her of Led
Zeppelin. Thinking about my mom made me sad, because it didn’t seem likely
I’d be home for Christmas. I might not live that long.
‘Nice coat,’ Thalia told me.
I pulled it round me, thankful for the warmth. ‘Yeah, but the Nemean Lion
wasn’t the monster we’re looking for.’
‘Not even close. We’ve got a long way to go.’
‘Whatever this mystery monster is, the General said it would come for you.
They wanted to isolate you from the group, so the monster will appear and battle
you one on one.’
‘He said that?’
‘Well, something like that. Yeah.’
‘That’s great. I love being used as bait.’
‘No idea what the monster might be?’
She shook her head morosely. ‘But you know where we’re going, don’t you?
San Francisco. That’s where Artemis was heading.’
I remembered something Annabeth had said at the dance: how her dad was
moving to San Francisco, and there was no way she could go. Half-bloods
couldn’t live there.
‘Why?’ I asked. ‘What’s so bad about San Francisco?’
‘The Mist is really thick there because the Mountain of Despair is so near.
Titan magic – what’s left of it – still lingers. Monsters are attracted to that area
like you wouldn’t believe.’
‘What’s the Mountain of Despair?’
Thalia raised an eyebrow. ‘You really don’t know? Ask stupid Zoë. She’s the
expert.’
She glared out the windshield. I wanted to ask her what she was talking about,
but I also didn’t want to sound like an idiot. I hated feeling like Thalia knew
more than I did, so I kept my mouth shut.
The afternoon sun shone through the steel-mesh side of the freight car, casting
a shadow across Thalia’s face. I thought about how different she was from Zoë –
Zoë all formal and aloof like a princess, Thalia with her ratty clothes and her
rebel attitude. But there was something similar about them, too. The same kind
of toughness. Right now, sitting in the shadows with a gloomy expression,
Thalia looked a lot like one of the Hunters.
Then suddenly it hit me: ‘That’s why you don’t get along with Zoë.’
Thalia frowned. ‘What?’
‘The Hunters tried to recruit you,’ I guessed.
Her eyes got dangerously bright. I thought she was going to zap me out of the
Mercedes, but she just sighed.
‘I almost joined them,’ she admitted. ‘Luke, Annabeth and I ran into them
once, and Zoë tried to convince me. She almost did, but…’
‘But?’
Thalia’s fingers gripped the wheel. ‘I would’ve had to leave Luke.’
‘Oh.’
‘Zoë and I got into a fight. She told me I was being stupid. She said I’d regret
my choice. She said Luke would let me down some day.’
I watched the sun through the metal curtain. We seemed to be travelling faster
each second – shadows flickering like an old movie projector.
‘That’s harsh,’ I said. ‘Hard to admit Zoë was right.’
‘She wasn’t right! Luke never let me down. Never.’
‘We’ll have to fight him,’ I said. ‘There’s no way around it.’
Thalia didn’t answer.
‘You haven’t seen him lately,’ I warned. ‘I know it’s hard to believe, but –’
‘I’ll do what I have to.’
‘Even if that means killing him?’
‘Do me a favour,’she said. ‘Get out of my car.’
I felt so bad for her I didn’t argue.
As I was about to leave, she said, ‘Percy.’
When I looked back, her eyes were red, but I couldn’t tell if it was from anger
or sadness. ‘Annabeth wanted to join the Hunters, too. Maybe you should think
about why.’
Before I could respond, she raised the power windows and shut me out.
I sat in the driver’s seat of Grover’s Lamborghini. Grover was asleep in the back.
He’d finally given up trying to impress Zoë and Bianca with his pipe music after
he played ‘Poison Ivy’ and caused that very stuff to sprout from their Lexus’ air
conditioner.
As I watched the sun go down, I thought of Annabeth. I was afraid to go to
sleep. I was worried what I might dream.
‘Oh, don’t be afraid of dreams,’ a voice said right next me.
I looked over. Somehow, I wasn’t surprised to find the homeless guy from the
railway yard sitting in the shotgun seat. His jeans were so worn out they were
almost white. His coat was ripped, with stuffing coming out. He looked kind of
like a teddy bear that had been run over by a truck.
‘If it weren’t for dreams,’ he said, ‘I wouldn’t know half the things I know
about the future. They’re better than Olympus tabloids.’ He cleared his throat,
then held up his hands dramatically:
‘Dreams like a podcast,
Downloading truth in my ears.
They tell me cool stuff.’
‘Apollo?’ I guessed, because I figured nobody else could make a haiku that bad.
He put his finger to his lips. ‘I’m incognito. Call me Fred.’
‘A god named Fred?’
‘Eh, well… Zeus insists on certain rules. Hands off, when there’s a human
quest. Even when something really major is wrong. But nobody messes with my
baby sister. Nobody.’
‘Can you help us, then?’
‘Shhh. I already have. Haven’t you been looking outside?’
‘The train. How fast are we moving?’
Apollo chuckled. ‘Fast enough. Unfortunately, we’re running out of time. It’s
almost sunset. But I imagine we’ll get you across a good chunk of America, at
least.’
‘But where is Artemis?’
His face darkened. ‘I know a lot, and I see a lot. But even I don’t know that.
She’s… clouded from me. I don’t like it.’
‘And Annabeth?’
He frowned. ‘Oh, you mean that girl you lost? Hmm. I don’t know.’
I tried not to feel mad. I knew the gods had a hard time taking mortals
seriously, even half-bloods. We lived such short lives, compared to the gods.
‘What about the monster Artemis was seeking?’ I asked. ‘Do you know what
it is?’
‘No,’ Apollo said. ‘But there is one who might. If you haven’t yet found the
monster when you reach San Francisco, seek out Nereus, the old man of the sea.
He has a long memory and a sharp eye. He has the gift of knowledge sometimes
kept obscure from my Oracle.’
‘But it’s your Oracle,’ I protested. ‘Can’t you tell us what the prophecy
means?’
Apollo sighed. ‘You might as well ask an artist to explain his art, or ask a poet
to explain his poem. It defeats the purpose. The meaning is only clear through
the search.’
‘In other words, you don’t know.’
Apollo checked his watch. ‘Ah, look at the time! I have to run. I doubt I can
risk helping you again, Percy, but remember what I said! Get some sleep! And
when you return, I expect a good haiku about your journey!’
I wanted to protest that I wasn’t tired and I’d never made up a haiku in my
life, but Apollo snapped his fingers, and the next thing I knew I was closing my
eyes.
In my dream, I was somebody else. I was wearing an old-fashioned Greek tunic,
which was a little too breezy downstairs, and laced leather sandals. The Nemean
Lion’s skin was wrapped round my back like a cape, and I was running
somewhere, being pulled along by a girl who was gripping my hand tightly.
‘Hurry!’ she said. It was too dark to see her face clearly, but I could hear the
fear in her voice. ‘He will find us!’
It was night-time. A million stars blazed above. We were running through tall
grass, and the scent of a thousand different flowers made the air intoxicating. It
was a beautiful garden, and yet the girl was leading me through it as if we were
about to die.
‘I’m not afraid,’ I tried to tell her.
‘You should be!’ she said, pulling me along. She had long dark hair braided
down her back. Her silk robes glowed faintly in the starlight.
We raced up the side of the hill. She pulled me behind a thorn bush and we
collapsed, both breathing heavily. I didn’t know why the girl was scared. The
garden seemed so peaceful. And I felt strong. Stronger than I’d ever felt before.
‘There is no need to run,’ I told her. My voice sounded deeper, much more
confident. ‘I have bested a thousand monsters with my bare hands.’
‘Not this one,’ the girl said. ‘Ladon is too strong. You must go round, up the
mountain to my father. It is the only way.’
The hurt in her voice surprised me. She was really concerned, almost like she
cared about me.
‘I don’t trust your father,’ I said.
‘You should not,’ the girl agreed. ‘You will have to trick him. But you cannot
take the prize directly. You will die!’
I chuckled. ‘Then why don’t you help me, pretty one?’
‘I… I am afraid. Ladon will stop me. My sisters, if they found out… they
would disown me.’
‘Then there’s nothing for it.’ I stood up, rubbing my hands together.
‘Wait!’ the girl said.
She seemed to be agonizing over a decision. Then, her fingers trembling, she
reached up and plucked a long white brooch from her hair. ‘If you must fight,
take this. My mother, Pleoine, gave it to me. She was a daughter of the ocean,
and the ocean’s power is within it. My immortal power.’
The girl breathed on the pin and it glowed faintly. It gleamed in the starlight
like polished abalone.
‘Take it,’she told me. ‘And make of it a weapon.’
I laughed. ‘A hairpin? How will this slay Ladon, pretty one?’
‘It may not,’ she admitted. ‘But it is all I can offer, if you insist on being
stubborn.’
The girl’s voice softened my heart. I reached down and took the hairpin, and,
as I did, it grew longer and heavier in my hand, until I held a familiar bronze
sword.
‘Well balanced,’ I said. ‘Though, I usually prefer to use my bare hands. What
shall I name this blade?’
‘Anaklusmos,’ the girl said sadly. ‘The current that takes one by surprise. And
before you know it you have been swept out to sea.’
Before I could thank her, there was a trampling sound in the grass, a hiss like
air escaping a tyre, and the girl said, ‘Too late! He is here!’
I sat bolt upright in the Lamborghini’s driver seat. Grover was shaking my arm.
‘Percy,’ he said. ‘It’s morning. The train’s stopped. Come on!’
I tried to shake off my drowsiness. Thalia, Zoë and Bianca had already rolled
up the metal curtains. Outside were snowy mountains dotted with pine trees, the
sun rising red between two peaks.
I fished my pen out of my pocket and stared at it. Anaklusmos, the Ancient
Greek name for Riptide. A different form, but I was sure it was the same blade
I’d seen in my dream.
And I was sure of something else, too. The girl I had seen was Zoë
Nightshade.