CHAPTER 20: We Win Fabulous Prizes
The Three Fates themselves took Luke’s body.
I hadn’t seen the old ladies in years, since I’d witnessed them snip a life thread
at a roadside fruit stand when I was twelve. They’d scared me then, and they
scared me now – three ghoulish grandmothers with bags of knitting needles and
yarn.
One of them looked at me and, even though she didn’t say anything, my life
literally flashed before my eyes. Suddenly I was twenty. Then I was a middleaged man. Then I turned old and withered. All the strength left my body, and I
saw my own tombstone and an open grave, a coffin being lowered into the
ground. All this happened in less than a second.
It is done, she said.
The Fate held up the snippet of blue yarn – and I knew it was the same one I’d
seen four years ago, the lifeline I’d watched them snip. I had thought it was my
life. Now I realized it was Luke’s. They’d been showing me the life that would
have to be sacrificed to set things right.
They gathered up Luke’s body, now wrapped in a white-and-green shroud,
and began carrying it out of the throne room.
‘Wait,’ Hermes said.
The messenger god was dressed in his classic outfit of white Greek robes,
sandals and helmet. The wings of his helm fluttered as he walked. The snakes
George and Martha curled around his caduceus, murmuring, Luke, poor Luke.
I thought about May Castellan, alone in her kitchen, baking cookies and
making sandwiches for a son who would never come home.
Hermes unwrapped Luke’s face and kissed his forehead. He murmured some
words in Ancient Greek – a final blessing.
‘Farewell,’ he whispered. Then he nodded, and allowed the Fates to carry
away his son’s body.
As they left, I thought about the Great Prophecy. The lines now made sense to
me. The hero’s soul, cursed blade shall reap. The hero was Luke. The cursed
blade was the knife he’d given Annabeth long ago – cursed because Luke had
broken his promise and betrayed his friends. A single choice shall end his days.
My choice – to give him the knife, and to believe as Annabeth had, that he was
still capable of setting things right. Olympus to preserve or raze. By sacrificing
himself, he had saved Olympus. Rachel was right. In the end, I wasn’t really the
hero. Luke was.
And I understood something else: when Luke had descended into the River
Styx, he would’ve had to focus on something important that would hold him to
his mortal life. Otherwise he would’ve dissolved. I had seen Annabeth, and I had
a feeling he had, too. He had pictured that scene Hestia showed me – of himself
in the good old days with Thalia and Annabeth, when he promised that they
would be a family. Hurting Annabeth in battle had shocked him into
remembering that promise. It had allowed his mortal conscience to take over
again, and defeat Kronos. His weak spot – his Achilles heel – had saved us all.
Next to me, Annabeth’s knees buckled. I caught her but she cried out in pain,
and I realized I’d grabbed her broken arm.
‘Oh, gods,’ I said. ‘Annabeth, I’m sorry.’
‘It’s all right,’she said, as she passed out in my arms.
‘She needs help!’ I yelled.
‘I’ve got this.’ Apollo stepped forward. His fiery armour was so bright it was
hard to look at, and his matching Ray-Bans and perfect smile made him look like
a male model for battle gear. ‘God of medicine, at your service.’
He passed his hand over Annabeth’s face and spoke an incantation.
Immediately the bruises faded. Her cuts and scars disappeared. Her arm
straightened, and she sighed in her sleep.
Apollo grinned. ‘She’ll be fine in a few minutes. Just enough time for me to
compose a poem about our victory: “Apollo and his friends save Olympus.”
Good, eh?’
‘Thanks, Apollo,’ I said. ‘I’ll, um, let you handle the poetry.’
The next few hours were a blur. I remembered my promise to my mother.
Zeus didn’t even blink an eye when I told him my strange request. He snapped
his fingers and informed me that the top of the Empire State Building was now
lit up blue. Most mortals would just have to wonder what it meant, but my mom
would know: I had survived. Olympus was saved.
The gods set about repairing the throne room, which went surprisingly fast
with twelve super-powerful beings at work. Grover and I cared for the wounded,
and once the sky bridge re-formed we greeted our friends who had survived. The
Cyclopes had saved Thalia from the fallen statue. She was on crutches, but
otherwise she was okay. Connor and Travis Stoll had made it through with only
minor injuries. They promised me they hadn’t even looted the city much. They
told me my parents were fine, though they weren’t allowed into Mount
Olympus. Mrs O’Leary had dug Chiron out of the rubble and rushed him off to
camp. The Stolls looked kind of worried about the old centaur, but at least he
was alive. Katie Gardner reported that she’d seen Rachel Elizabeth Dare run out
of the Empire State Building at the end of the battle. Rachel had looked
unharmed, but nobody knew where she’d gone, which also troubled me.
Nico di Angelo came into Olympus to a hero’s welcome, his father right
behind him, despite the fact that Hades was only supposed to visit Olympus on
winter solstice. The god of the dead looked stunned when his relatives clapped
him on the back. I doubt he’d ever got such an enthusiastic welcome before.
Clarisse marched in, still shivering from her time in the ice block, and Ares
bellowed, ‘There’s my girl!’
The god of war ruffled her hair and pounded her on the back, calling her the
best warrior he’d ever seen. ‘That drakon-slaying? THAT’S what I’m talking
about!’
She looked pretty overwhelmed. All she could do was nod and blink, like she
was afraid he’d start hitting her, but eventually she began to smile.
Hera and Hephaestus passed me, and while Hephaestus was a little grumpy
about me jumping on his throne, he thought I’d done ‘a pretty bang-up job,
mostly’.
Hera sniffed in disdain. ‘I suppose I won’t destroy you and that little girl now.’
‘Annabeth saved Olympus,’ I told her. ‘She convinced Luke to stop Kronos.’
‘Hmm.’ Hera whirled away in a huff, but I figured our lives would be safe, at
least for a little while.
Dionysus’ head was still wrapped in a bandage. He looked me up and down
and said, ‘Well, Percy Jackson. I see Pollux made it through, so I suppose you
aren’t completely inept. It’s all thanks to my training, I suppose.’
‘Um, yes, sir,’ I said.
Mr D nodded. ‘As thanks for my bravery, Zeus has cut my probation at that
miserable camp in half. I now have only fifty years left instead of one hundred.’
‘Fifty years, huh?’ I tried to imagine putting up with Dionysus until I was an
old man, assuming I lived that long.
‘Don’t get so excited, Jackson,’ he said, and I realized he was saying my name
correctly. ‘I still plan on making your life miserable.’
I couldn’t help smiling. ‘Naturally.’
‘Just so we understand each other.’ He turned and began repairing his
grapevine throne, which had been singed by fire.
Grover stayed at my side. From time to time he would break down in tears.
‘So many nature spirits dead, Percy. So many.’
I put my arm around his shoulders and gave him a rag to blow his nose. ‘You
did a great job, G-man. We will come back from this. We’ll plant new trees.
We’ll clean up the parks. Your friends will be reincarnated into a better world.’
He sniffled dejectedly. ‘I – I suppose. But it was hard enough to rally them
before. I’m still an outcast. I could barely get anyone to listen to me about Pan.
Now will they ever listen to me again? I led them into a slaughter.’
‘They will listen,’ I promised. ‘Because you care about them. You care about
the wild more than anyone.’
He tried for a smile. ‘Thanks, Percy. I hope … I hope you know I’m really
proud to be your friend.’
I patted his arm. ‘Luke was right about one thing, G-man. You’re the bravest
satyr I ever met.’
He blushed, but before he could say anything, conch horns blew. The army of
Poseidon marched into the throne room.
‘Percy!’ Tyson yelled. He charged towards me with his arms open.
Fortunately, he’d shrunk back to normal size, so his hug was like getting hit by a
tractor, not the entire farm.
‘You are not dead!’ he said.
‘Yeah!’ I agreed. ‘Amazing, huh?’
He clapped his hands and laughed happily. ‘I am not dead, either. Yay! We
chained Typhon. It was fun!’
Behind him, fifty other armoured Cyclopes laughed and nodded and gave each
other high-fives.
‘Tyson led us,’ one rumbled. ‘He is brave!’
‘Bravest of the Cyclopes!’ another bellowed.
Tyson blushed. ‘Was nothing.’
‘I saw you!’ I said. ‘You were incredible!’
I thought poor Grover would pass out. He’s deathly afraid of Cyclopes. But he
steeled his nerves and said, ‘Yes. Um … three cheers for Tyson!’
‘YAAARRRRR!’ the Cyclopes roared.
‘Please don’t eat me,’ Grover muttered, but I don’t think anyone heard him but
me.
The conch horns blasted again. The Cyclopes parted, and my father strode into
the throne room in his battle armour, his trident glowing in his hands.
‘Tyson!’ he roared. ‘Well done, my son. And, Percy –’ His face turned stern.
He wagged his finger at me, and for a second I was afraid he was going to zap
me. ‘I even forgive you for sitting on my throne. You have saved Olympus!’
He held out his arms and gave me a hug. I realized, a little embarrassed, that
I’d never actually hugged my dad before. He was warm – like a regular human,
and he smelled of a salty beach and fresh sea air.
When he pulled away, he smiled kindly at me. I felt so good I’ll admit I teared
up a little. I guess until that moment I hadn’t allowed myself to realize just how
terrified I had been the last few days.
‘Dad –’
‘Shhh,’ he said. ‘No hero is above fear, Percy. And you have risen above every
hero. Not even Hercules –’
‘POSEIDON!’ a voice roared.
Zeus had taken his throne. He glared across the room at my dad while all the
other gods filed in and took their seats. Even Hades was present, sitting on a
simple stone guest chair at the foot of the hearth. Nico sat cross-legged on the
ground at his dad’s feet.
‘Well, Poseidon?’ Zeus grumped. ‘Are you too proud to join us in council, my
brother?’
I thought Poseidon was going to get mad, but he just looked at me and
winked. ‘I would be honoured, Lord Zeus.’
I guess miracles do happen. Poseidon strode over to his fishing seat and the
Olympian Council convened.
While Zeus was talking – some long speech about the bravery of the gods, blah,
blah, blah – Annabeth walked in and stood next to me. She looked good for
someone who’d recently passed out.
‘Miss much?’she whispered.
‘Nobody’s planning to kill us, so far,’ I whispered back.
‘First time today.’
I cracked up, but Grover nudged me, because Hera was giving us a dirty look.
‘As for my brothers,’ Zeus said, ‘we are thankful –’ he cleared his throat, like
the words were hard to get out – ‘erm, thankful for the aid of Hades.’
The Lord of the Dead nodded. He had a smug look on his face, but I figure
he’d earned the right. He patted his son Nico on the shoulders, and Nico looked
happier than I’d ever seen him.
‘And, of course,’ Zeus continued, though he looked like his pants were
smouldering, ‘we must … um … thank Poseidon.’
‘I’m sorry, brother,’ Poseidon said. ‘What was that?’
‘We must thank Poseidon,’ Zeus growled. ‘Without whom … it would’ve been
difficult –’
‘Difficult?’ Poseidon asked innocently.
‘Impossible,’ Zeus said. ‘Impossible to defeat Typhon.’
The gods murmured agreement and pounded their weapons in approval.
‘Which leaves us,’ Zeus said, ‘only the matter of thanking our young demigod
heroes, who defended Olympus so well – even if there were a few dents in my
throne.’
He called Thalia forward first, since she was his daughter, and promised her
help in filling the Hunters’ ranks.
Artemis smiled. ‘You have done well, my lieutenant. You have made me
proud, and all those Hunters who perished in my service will never be forgotten.
They will achieve Elysium, I am sure.’
She glared pointedly at Hades.
He shrugged. ‘Probably.’
Artemis glared at him some more.
‘Okay,’ Hades grumbled. ‘I’ll streamline their application process.’
Thalia beamed with pride. ‘Thank you, my lady.’ She bowed to the gods, even
Hades, and then limped over to stand by Artemis’s side.
‘Tyson, son of Poseidon!’ Zeus called. Tyson looked nervous, but he went to
stand in the middle of the council, and Zeus grunted.
‘Doesn’t miss many meals, does he?’ Zeus muttered. ‘Tyson, for your bravery
in the war, and for leading the Cyclopes, you are appointed a general in the
armies of Olympus. You shall henceforth lead your brethren into war whenever
required by the gods. And you shall have a new … um … what kind of weapon
would you like? A sword? An axe?’
‘Stick!’ Tyson said, showing his broken club.
‘Very well,’ Zeus said. ‘We will grant you a new, er, stick. The best stick that
may be found.’
‘Hooray!’ Tyson cried, and all the Cyclopes cheered and pounded him on the
back as he rejoined them.
‘Grover Underwood of the satyrs!’ Dionysus called.
Grover came forward nervously.
‘Oh, stop chewing your shirt,’ Dionysus chided. ‘Honestly, I’m not going to
blast you. For your bravery and sacrifice, blah, blah, blah, and since we have an
unfortunate vacancy, the gods have seen fit to name you a member of the
Council of Cloven Elders.’
Grover collapsed on the spot.
‘Oh, wonderful,’ Dionysus sighed, as several naiads came forward to help
Grover. ‘Well, when he wakes up, someone tell him that he will no longer be an
outcast, and that all satyrs, naiads and other spirits of nature will henceforth treat
him as a Lord of the Wild, with all rights, privileges, and honours, blah, blah,
blah. Now, please, drag him off before he wakes up and starts grovelling.’
‘FOOOOOD,’ Grover moaned, as the nature spirits carried him away.
I figured he’d be okay. He would wake up a Lord of the Wild with a bunch of
beautiful naiads taking care of him. Life could be worse.
Athena called, ‘Annabeth Chase, my own daughter.’
Annabeth squeezed my arm, then walked forward and knelt at her mother’s
feet.
Athena smiled. ‘You, my daughter, have exceeded all expectations. You have
used your wits, your strength and your courage to defend this city, and our seat
of power. It has come to our attention that Olympus is … well, trashed. The
Titan lord did much damage that will have to be repaired. We could rebuild it by
magic, of course, and make it just as it was. But the gods feel that the city could
be improved. We will take this as an opportunity. And you, my daughter, will
design these improvements.’
Annabeth looked up, stunned. ‘My – my lady?’
Athena smiled wryly. ‘You are an architect, are you not? You have studied the
techniques of Daedalus himself. Who better to redesign Olympus, and make it a
monument that will last for another aeon?’
‘You mean … I can design whatever I want?’
‘As your heart desires,’ the goddess said. ‘Make us a city for the ages.’
‘As long as you have plenty of statues of me,’ Apollo added.
‘And me,’ Aphrodite agreed.
‘Hey, and me!’ Ares said. ‘Big statues with huge wicked swords and –’
‘All right!’ Athena interrupted. ‘She gets the point. Rise, my daughter –
official architect of Olympus.’
Annabeth rose in a trance and walked back towards me.
‘Way to go,’ I told her, grinning.
For once, she was at a loss for words. ‘I’ll – I’ll have to start planning …
Drafting paper, and, um, pencils –’
‘PERCY JACKSON!’ Poseidon announced. My name echoed around the
chamber.
All talking died down. The room was silent except for the crackle of the
hearth fire. Everyone’s eyes were on me – all the gods, the demigods, the
Cyclopes, the spirits. I walked into the middle of the throne room. Hestia smiled
at me reassuringly. She was in the form of a girl now, and she seemed happy and
content to be sitting by her fire again. Her smile gave me courage to keep
walking.
First I bowed to Zeus. Then I knelt at my father’s feet.
‘Rise, my son,’ Poseidon said.
I stood uneasily.
‘A great hero must be rewarded,’ Poseidon said. ‘Is there anyone here who
would deny that my son is deserving?’
I waited for someone to pipe up. The gods never agreed on anything, and
many of them still didn’t like me, but not a single one protested.
‘The council agrees,’ Zeus said. ‘Percy Jackson, you will have one gift from
the gods.’
I hesitated. ‘Any gift?’
Zeus nodded grimly. ‘I know what you will ask. The greatest gift of all. Yes, if
you want it, it shall be yours. The gods have not bestowed this gift on a mortal
hero in many centuries, but Perseus Jackson – if you wish it, you shall be made a
god. Immortal. Undying. You shall serve as your father’s lieutenant for all time.’
I stared at him, stunned. ‘Um … a god?’
Zeus rolled his eyes. ‘A dim-witted god, apparently. But yes. With the
consensus of the entire council, I can make you immortal. Then I will have to
put up with you forever.’
‘Hmm,’ Ares mused. ‘That means I can smash him to a pulp as often as I
want, and he’ll just keep coming back for more. I like this idea.’
‘I approve as well,’ Athena said, though she was looking at Annabeth.
I glanced back. Annabeth was trying not to meet my eyes. Her face was pale. I
flashed back to two years ago, when I’d thought she was going to take the pledge
to Artemis and become a Hunter. I’d been on the edge of a panic attack, thinking
that I’d lose her. Now she looked pretty much the same way.
I thought about the Three Fates, and the way I’d seen my life flash by. I could
avoid all that. No aging, no death, no body in the grave. I could be a teenager
forever, in top condition, powerful and immortal, serving my father. I could have
power and eternal life.
Who could refuse that?
Then I looked at Annabeth again. I thought about my friends from camp –
Charles Beckendorf, Michael Yew, Silena Beauregard, so many others who were
now dead. I thought about Ethan Nakamura and Luke.
And I knew what to do.
‘No,’ I said.
The council was silent. The gods frowned at each other like they must have
misheard.
‘No?’ Zeus said. ‘You are … turning down our generous gift?’
There was a dangerous edge to his voice, like a thunderstorm about to erupt.
‘I’m honoured and everything,’ I said. ‘Don’t get me wrong. It’s just … I’ve
got a lot of life left to live. I’d hate to peak in my sophomore year.’
The gods were glaring at me, but Annabeth had her hands over her mouth. Her
eyes were shining. And that kind of made up for it.
‘I do want a gift, though,’ I said. ‘Do you promise to grant my wish?’
Zeus thought about this. ‘If it is within our power.’
‘It is,’ I said. ‘And it’s not even difficult. But I need your promise on the River
Styx.’
‘What?’ Dionysus cried. ‘You don’t trust us?’
‘Someone once told me,’ I said, looking at Hades, ‘you should always get a
solemn oath.’
Hades shrugged. ‘Guilty.’
‘Very well!’ Zeus growled. ‘In the name of the council, we swear by the River
Styx to grant your reasonable request as long as it is within our power.’
The other gods muttered assent. Thunder boomed, shaking the throne room.
The deal was made.
‘From now on, I want you to properly recognize the children of the gods,’ I
said. ‘All the children … of all the gods.’
The Olympians shifted uncomfortably.
‘Percy,’ my father said, ‘what exactly do you mean?’
‘Kronos couldn’t have risen if it hadn’t been for a lot of demigods who felt
abandoned by their parents,’ I said. ‘They felt angry, resentful and unloved, and
they had a good reason.’
Zeus’s royal nostrils flared. ‘You dare accuse –’
‘No more undetermined children,’ I said. ‘I want you to promise to claim your
children – all your demigod children – by the time they turn thirteen. They won’t
be left out in the world on their own at the mercy of monsters. I want them
claimed and brought to camp so they can be trained right, and survive.’
‘Now wait just a moment,’ Apollo said, but I was on a roll.
‘And the minor gods,’ I said. ‘Nemesis, Hecate, Morpheus, Janus, Hebe – they
all deserve a general amnesty and a place at Camp Half-Blood. Their children
shouldn’t be ignored. Calypso and the other peaceful Titan-kind should be
pardoned, too. And Hades –’
‘Are you calling me a minor god?’ Hades bellowed.
‘No, my lord,’ I said quickly. ‘But your children should not be left out. They
should have a cabin at camp. Nico has proven that. No unclaimed demigods will
be crammed into the Hermes cabin any more, wondering who their parents are.
They’ll have their own cabins, for all the gods. And no more pact of the Big
Three. That didn’t work anyway. You’ve got to stop trying to get rid of powerful
demigods. We’re going to train them and accept them instead. All children of the
gods will be welcome and treated with respect. That is my wish.’
Zeus snorted. ‘Is that all?’
‘Percy,’ Poseidon said, ‘you ask much. You presume much.’
‘I hold you to your oath,’ I said. ‘All of you.’
I got a lot of steely looks. Strangely, it was Athena who spoke up: ‘The boy is
correct. We have been unwise to ignore our children. It proved a strategic
weakness in this war and almost caused our destruction. Percy Jackson – I have
had my doubts about you, but perhaps –’ she glanced at Annabeth, and then
spoke as if the words had a sour taste – ‘perhaps I was mistaken. I move that we
accept the boy’s plan.’
‘Humph,’ Zeus said. ‘Being told what to do by a mere child. But I suppose …’
‘All in favour,’ Hermes said.
All the gods raised their hands.
‘Um, thanks,’ I said.
I turned, but before I could leave, Poseidon called, ‘Honour guard!’
Immediately the Cyclopes came forward and made two lines from the thrones
to the door – an aisle for me to walk through. They came to attention.
‘All hail, Perseus Jackson,’ Tyson said. ‘Hero of Olympus … and my big
brother!’