CHAPTER 2: The Underworld Sends Me a Prank Call
Nothing caps off the perfect morning like a long taxi ride with an angry girl.
I tried to talk to Annabeth, but she was acting like I’d just punched her
grandmother. All I managed to get out of her was that she’d had a monsterinfested spring in San Francisco, she’d come back to camp twice since
Christmas but wouldn’t tell me why (which kind of ticked me off, because she
hadn’t even told me she was in New York) and she’d learned nothing about the
whereabouts of Nico di Angelo (long story).
‘Any word on Luke?’ I asked.
She shook her head. I knew this was a touchy subject for her. Annabeth had
always admired Luke, the former head counsellor for Hermes who had betrayed
us and joined the evil Titan Lord Kronos. She wouldn’t admit it, but I knew she
still liked him. When we’d fought Luke on Mount Tamalpais last winter, he’d
somehow survived a fifteen-metre fall off a cliff. Now, as far as I knew, he was
still sailing around on his demon-infested cruise ship while his chopped-up Lord
Kronos re-formed, bit by bit, in a golden sarcophagus, biding his time until he
had enough power to challenge the Olympian gods. In demigod-speak, we call
this a ‘problem’.
‘Mount Tam is still overrun with monsters,’ Annabeth said. ‘I didn’t dare go
close, but I don’t think Luke is up there. I think I would know if he was.’
That didn’t make me feel much better. ‘What about Grover?’
‘He’s at camp,’she said. ‘We’ll see him today.’
‘Did he have any luck? I mean, with the search for Pan?’
Annabeth fingered her bead necklace, the way she does when she’s worried.
‘You’ll see,’she said. But she didn’t explain.
As we headed through Brooklyn, I used Annabeth’s phone to call my mom.
Half-bloods try not to use cell phones if we can avoid it, because broadcasting
our voices is like sending up a flare to the monsters: Here I am! Please eat me
now! But I figured this call was important. I left a message on our home voice
mail, trying to explain what had happened at Goode. I probably didn’t do a very
good job. I told my mom I was fine, she shouldn’t worry, but I was going to stay
at camp until things cooled down. I asked her to tell Paul Blofis I was sorry.
We rode in silence after that. The city melted away until we were off the
expressway and rolling through the countryside of northern Long Island, past
orchards and wineries and fresh produce stands.
I stared at the phone number Rachel Elizabeth Dare had scrawled on my hand.
I knew it was crazy, but I was tempted to call her. Maybe she could help me
understand what the empousa had been talking about – the camp burning, my
friends imprisoned. And why had Kelli exploded into flames?
I knew monsters never truly died. Eventually – maybe weeks, months or years
from now – Kelli would re-form out of the primordial nastiness seething in the
Underworld. But, still, monsters didn’t usually let themselves get destroyed so
easily. If she really was destroyed.
The taxi exited on Route 25A. We headed through the woods along the North
Shore until a low ridge of hills appeared on our left. Annabeth told the driver to
pull over on Farm Road 3.141, at the base of Half-Blood Hill.
The driver frowned. ‘There ain’t nothing here, miss. You sure you want out?’
‘Yes, please.’ Annabeth handed him a roll of mortal cash, and the driver
decided not to argue.
Annabeth and I hiked to the crest of the hill. The young guardian dragon was
dozing, coiled around the pine tree, but he lifted his coppery head as we
approached and let Annabeth scratch under his chin. Steam hissed out of his
nostrils like a kettle and he went cross-eyed with pleasure.
‘Hey, Peleus,’ Annabeth said. ‘Keeping everything safe?’
The last time I’d seen the dragon he’d been two metres long. Now he was at
least twice that, and as thick around as the tree itself. Above his head, on the
lowest branch of the pine tree, the Golden Fleece shimmered, its magic
protecting the camp’s borders from invasion. The dragon seemed relaxed, like
everything was okay. Below us, Camp Half-Blood looked peaceful – green
fields, forest, shiny white Greek buildings. The four-storey farmhouse we called
the Big House sat proudly in the midst of the strawberry fields. To the north, past
the beach, the Long Island Sound glittered in the sunlight.
Still… something felt wrong. There was tension in the air, as if the hill itself
were holding its breath, waiting for something bad to happen.
We walked down into the valley and found the summer session in full swing.
Most of the campers had arrived last Friday, so I already felt out of it. The satyrs
were playing their pipes in the strawberry fields, making the plants grow with
woodland magic. Campers were having flying horseback lessons, swooping over
the woods on their pegasi. Smoke rose from the forges and hammers rang as kids
made their own weapons for arts & crafts. The Athena and Demeter teams were
having a chariot race around the track, and over at the canoe lake some kids in a
Greek trireme were fighting a large orange sea serpent. A typical day at camp.
‘I need to talk to Clarisse,’ Annabeth said.
I stared at her as if she’d just said I need to eat a large smelly boot. ‘What
for?’
Clarisse from the Ares cabin was one of my least favourite people. She was a
mean, ungrateful bully. Her dad, the war god, wanted to kill me. She tried to beat
me to a pulp on a regular basis. Other than that, she was just great.
‘We’ve been working on something,’ Annabeth said. ‘I’ll see you later.’
‘Working on what?’
Annabeth glanced towards the forest.
‘I’ll tell Chiron you’re here,’ she said. ‘He’ll want to talk to you before the
hearing.’
‘What hearing?’
But she jogged down the path towards the archery field without looking back.
‘Yeah,’ I muttered. ‘Great talking with you, too.’
As I made my way through camp, I said hi to some of my friends. In the Big
House’s driveway, Connor and Travis Stoll from the Hermes cabin were hotwiring the camp’s van. Silena Beauregard, the head counsellor for Aphrodite,
waved at me from her pegasus as she flew past. I looked for Grover, but I didn’t
see him. Finally I wandered into the sword arena, where I usually go when I’m
in a bad mood. Practising always calms me down. Maybe that’s because
swordplay is one thing I actually understand.
I walked into the amphitheatre and my heart almost stopped. In the middle of
the arena floor, with its back to me, was the biggest hellhound I’d ever seen.
I mean, I’ve seen some pretty big hellhounds. One the size of a rhino tried to
kill me when I was twelve. But this hellhound was bigger than a tank. I had no
idea how it had got past the camp’s magic boundaries. It looked right at home,
lying on its belly, growling contentedly as it chewed the head off a combat
dummy. It hadn’t noticed me yet, but if I made a sound, I knew it would sense
me. There was no time to go for help. I pulled out Riptide and uncapped it.
‘Yaaaaah!’ I charged. I brought down the blade on the monster’s enormous
backside, when out of nowhere another sword blocked my strike.
CLANG!
The hellhound pricked up its ears. ‘WOOF!’
I jumped back and instinctively struck at the swordsman – a grey-haired man
in Greek armour. He parried my attack with no problem.
‘Whoa there!’ he said. ‘Truce!’
‘WOOF!’ The hellhound’s bark shook the arena.
‘That’s a hellhound!’ I shouted.
‘She’s harmless,’ the man said. ‘That’s Mrs O’Leary.’
I blinked. ‘Mrs O’Leary?’
At the sound of her name, the hellhound barked again. I realized she wasn’t
angry. She was excited. She nudged the soggy, badly chewed target dummy
towards the swordsman.
‘Good girl,’ the man said. With his free hand he grabbed the armoured
manikin by the neck and heaved it towards the stands. ‘Get the Greek! Get the
Greek!’
Mrs O’Leary bounded after her prey and pounced on the dummy, flattening its
armour. She began chewing on its helmet.
The swordsman smiled dryly. He was in his fifties, I guess, with short grey
hair and a clipped grey beard. He was in good shape for an older guy. He wore
black mountain-climbing trousers and a bronze breastplate strapped over an
orange camp T-shirt. At the base of his neck was a strange mark, a purplish
blotch like a birthmark or a tattoo, but before I could make out what it was, he
shifted his armour straps and the mark disappeared under his collar.
‘Mrs O’Leary is my pet,’ he explained. ‘I couldn’t let you stick a sword in her
rump, now, could I? That might have scared her.’
‘Who are you?’
‘Promise not to kill me if I put my sword away?’
‘I guess.’
He sheathed his sword and held out his hand. ‘Quintus.’
I shook his hand. It was as rough as sandpaper.
‘Percy Jackson,’ I said. ‘Sorry about – How did you, um –’
‘Get a hellhound for a pet? Long story, involving many close calls with death
and quite a few giant chew toys. I’m the new sword instructor, by the way.
Helping Chiron out while Mr D is away.’
‘Oh.’ I tried not to stare as Mrs O’Leary ripped off the target dummy’s shield
with the arm still attached and shook it like a frisbee. ‘Wait, Mr D is away?’
‘Yes, well… busy times. Even old Dionysus must help out. He’s gone to visit
some old friends. Make sure they’re on the right side. I probably shouldn’t say
more than that.’
If Dionysus was gone, that was the best news I’d had all day. He was only our
camp director because Zeus had sent him here as a punishment for chasing some
off-limits wood nymph. He hated the campers and tried to make our lives
miserable. With him away, this summer might actually be cool. On the other
hand, if Dionysus had got off his butt and actually started helping the gods
recruit against the Titan threat, things must be looking pretty bad.
Off to my left, there was a loud BUMP. Six wooden crates the size of picnic
tables were stacked nearby, and they were rattling. Mrs O’Leary cocked her head
and bounded towards them.
‘Whoa, girl!’ Quintus said. ‘Those aren’t for you.’ He distracted her with the
bronze shield frisbee.
The crates thumped and shook. There were words printed on the sides, but
with my dyslexia they took me a few minutes to decipher:
TRIPLE G RANCH
FRAGILE
THIS WAY UP
Along the bottom, in smaller letters:
OPEN WITH CARE.
TRIPLE G RANCH IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR PROPERTY
DAMAGE, MAIMING OR EXCRUCIATINGLY PAINFUL DEATHS.
‘What’s in the boxes?’ I asked.
‘A little surprise,’ Quintus said. ‘Training activity for tomorrow night. You’ll
love it.’
‘Uh, okay,’ I said, though I wasn’t sure about the ‘excruciatingly painful
deaths’ part.
Quintus threw the bronze shield, and Mrs O’Leary lumbered after it. ‘You
young ones need more challenges. They didn’t have camps like this when I was
a boy.’
‘You – you’re a half-blood?’ I didn’t mean to sound so surprised, but I’d never
seen an old demigod before.
Quintus chuckled. ‘Some of us do survive into adulthood, you know. Not all
of us are the subject of terrible prophecies.’
‘You know about my prophecy?’
‘I’ve heard a few things.’
I wanted to ask what few things, but just then Chiron clip-clopped into the
arena. ‘Percy, there you are!’
He must’ve just come from teaching archery. He had a quiver and bow slung
over his ‘NO. 1 CENTAUR’ T-shirt. He’d trimmed his curly brown hair and
beard for the summer, and his lower half, which was a white stallion, was
flecked with mud and grass.
‘I see you’ve met our new instructor.’ Chiron’s tone was light, but there was
an uneasy look in his eyes. ‘Quintus, do you mind if I borrow Percy?’
‘Not at all, Master Chiron.’
‘No need to call me “master”,’ Chiron said, though he sounded sort of pleased.
‘Come, Percy. We have much to discuss.’
I took one more glance at Mrs O’Leary, who was now chewing off the target
dummy’s legs.
‘Well, see you,’ I told Quintus.
As we were walking away, I whispered to Chiron, ‘Quintus seems kind of –’
‘Mysterious?’ Chiron suggested. ‘Hard to read?’
‘Yeah.’
Chiron nodded. ‘A very qualified half-blood. Excellent swordsman. I just wish
I understood…’
Whatever he was going to say, he apparently changed his mind. ‘First things
first, Percy. Annabeth told me you met some empousai.’
‘Yeah.’ I told him about the fight at Goode, and how Kelli had exploded into
flames.
‘Mm,’ Chiron said. ‘The more powerful ones can do that. She did not die,
Percy. She simply escaped. It is not good that the she-demons are stirring.’
‘What were they doing there?’ I asked. ‘Waiting for me?’
‘Possibly.’ Chiron frowned. ‘It is amazing you survived. Their powers of
deception… almost any male hero would’ve fallen under their spell and been
devoured.’
‘I would’ve been,’ I admitted. ‘Except for Rachel.’
Chiron nodded. ‘Ironic to be saved by a mortal, yet we owe her a debt. What
the empousa said about an attack on camp – we must speak of this further. But
for now, come, we should get to the woods. Grover will want you there.’
‘Where?’
‘At his formal hearing,’ Chiron said grimly. ‘The Council of Cloven Elders is
meeting now to decide his fate.’
Chiron said we needed to hurry, so I let him give me a ride on his back. As we
galloped past the cabins, I glanced at the dining hall – an open-air Greek
pavilion on a hill overlooking the sea. It was the first time I’d seen the place
since last summer, and it brought back bad memories.
Chiron plunged into the woods. Nymphs peeked out of the trees to watch us
pass. Large shapes rustled in the shadows – monsters that were kept in here as a
challenge to the campers.
I thought I knew the forest pretty well after playing capture the flag here for
two summers, but Chiron took me a way I didn’t recognize, through a tunnel of
old willow trees, past a little waterfall and into a glade blanketed with
wildflowers.
A bunch of satyrs was sitting in a circle on the grass. Grover stood in the
middle, facing three really old, really fat satyrs who sat on topiary thrones
shaped out of rose bushes. I’d never seen the three old satyrs before, but I
guessed they must be the Council of Cloven Elders.
Grover seemed to be telling them a story. He twisted the bottom of his T-shirt,
shifting nervously on his goat hooves. He hadn’t changed much since last winter,
maybe because satyrs age half as fast as humans. His acne had flared up. His
horns had got a little bigger, so they just stuck out over his curly hair. I realized
with a start that I was taller than him now.
Standing off to one side of the circle were Annabeth, another girl I’d never
seen before, and Clarisse. Chiron dropped me next to them.
Clarisse’s stringy brown hair was tied back with a camouflage bandanna. If
possible, she looked even buffer, like she’d been working out. She glared at me
and muttered, ‘Punk,’ which must’ve meant she was in a good mood. Usually
she says hello by trying to kill me.
Annabeth had her arm around the other girl, who looked like she’d been
crying. She was small – petite, I guess you’d call it – with wispy hair the colour
of amber and a pretty, elfish face. She wore a green chiton and laced sandals, and
she was dabbing her eyes with a handkerchief. ‘It’s going terribly,’she sniffled.
‘No, no.’ Annabeth patted her shoulder. ‘He’ll be fine, Juniper.’
Annabeth looked at me and mouthed the words Grover’s girlfriend.
At least I thought that’s what she said, but that made no sense. Grover with a
girlfriend? Then I looked at Juniper more closely, and I realized her ears were
slightly pointed. Her eyes, instead of being red from crying, were tinged green,
the colour of chlorophyll. She was a tree nymph – a dryad.
‘Master Underwood!’ the council member on the right shouted, cutting off
whatever Grover was trying to say. ‘Do you seriously expect us to believe this?’
‘B-but, Silenus,’ Grover stammered. ‘It’s the truth!’
The council guy, Silenus, turned to his colleagues and muttered something.
Chiron cantered up to the front and stood next to them. I remembered he was an
honorary member of the council, but I’d never thought about it much. The elders
didn’t look very impressive. They reminded me of the goats in a petting zoo –
huge bellies, sleepy expressions, and glazed eyes that couldn’t see past the next
handful of goat chow. I wasn’t sure why Grover looked so nervous.
Silenus tugged his yellow polo shirt over his belly and adjusted himself on his
rosebush throne. ‘Master Underwood, for six months – six months – we have
been hearing these scandalous claims that you heard the wild god Pan speak.’
‘But I did!’
‘Impudence!’said the elder on the left.
‘Now, Maron,’ Chiron said. ‘Patience.’
‘Patience, indeed!’ Maron said. ‘I’ve had it up to my horns with this nonsense.
As if the wild god would speak to… to him.’
Juniper looked like she wanted to charge the old satyr and beat him up, but
Annabeth and Clarisse held her back. ‘Wrong fight, girlie,’ Clarisse muttered.
‘Wait.’
I don’t know what surprised me more: Clarisse holding somebody back from a
fight, or the fact that she and Annabeth, who despised each other, almost seemed
like they were working together.
‘For six months,’ Silenus continued, ‘we have indulged you, Master
Underwood. We let you travel. We allowed you to keep your searcher’s licence.
We waited for you to bring proof of your preposterous claim. And what have you
found in six months of travel?’
‘I just need more time,’ Grover pleaded.
‘Nothing!’ the elder in the middle chimed in. ‘You have found nothing.’
‘But, Leneus –’
Silenus raised his hand. Chiron leaned in and said something to the satyrs. The
satyrs didn’t look happy. They muttered and argued among themselves, but
Chiron said something else, and Silenus sighed. He nodded reluctantly.
‘Master Underwood,’ Silenus announced, ‘we will give you one more chance.’
Grover brightened. ‘Thank you!’
‘One more week.’
‘What? But, sir! That’s impossible!’
‘One more week, Master Underwood. And then, if you cannot prove your
claims, it will be time for you to pursue another career. Something to suit your
dramatic talents. Puppet theatre, perhaps. Or tap dancing.’
‘But, sir, I – I can’t lose my searcher’s licence. My whole life –’
‘This meeting of the council is adjourned,’ Silenus said. ‘And now let us enjoy
our noonday meal!’
The old satyr clapped his hands and a bunch of nymphs melted out of the trees
with platters of vegetables, fruits, tin cans and other goat delicacies. The circle of
satyrs broke and charged the food. Grover walked dejectedly towards us. His
faded blue T-shirt had a picture of a satyr on it. It read: Got Hooves?
‘Hi, Percy,’ he said, so depressed he didn’t even offer to shake my hand. ‘That
went well, huh?’
‘Those old goats!’ Juniper said. ‘Oh, Grover, they don’t know how hard
you’ve tried!’
‘There is another option,’ Clarisse said darkly.
‘No. No.’Juniper shook her head. ‘Grover, I won’t let you.’
His face was ashen. ‘I – I’ll have to think about it. But we don’t even know
where to look.’
‘What are you talking about?’ I asked.
In the distance, a conch horn sounded.
Annabeth pursed her lips. ‘I’ll fill you in later, Percy. We’d better get back to
our cabins. Inspection is starting.’
It didn’t seem fair that I’d have to do cabin inspection when I just got to camp,
but that’s the way it worked. Every afternoon, one of the senior counsellors came
around with a papyrus-scroll checklist. Best cabin got first shower hour, which
meant hot water guaranteed. Worst cabin got kitchen patrol after dinner.
The problem for me: I was usually the only one in the Poseidon cabin, and I’m
not exactly what you would call neat. The cleaning harpies only came through
on the last day of summer, so my cabin was probably just the way I’d left it on
winter break: my chocolate wrappers and crisp bags still on my bunk, my armour
for capture the flag lying in pieces all around the cabin.
I raced towards the commons area, where the twelve cabins – one for each
Olympian god – made a U around the central green. The Demeter kids were
sweeping out theirs and making fresh flowers grow in their window boxes. Just
by snapping their fingers they could make honeysuckle vines bloom over their
doorway and daisies cover their roof, which was totally unfair. I don’t think they
ever got last place in inspection. The guys in the Hermes cabin were scrambling
around in a panic, stashing dirty laundry under their beds and accusing each
other of taking stuff. They were slobs, but they still had a head start on me.
Over at the Aphrodite cabin, Silena Beauregard was just coming out, checking
items off the inspection scroll. I cursed under my breath. Silena was nice, but she
was an absolute neat freak, the worst inspector. She liked things to be pretty. I
didn’t do ‘pretty’. I could almost feel my arms getting heavy from all the dishes I
would have to scrub tonight.
The Poseidon cabin was at the end of the row of ‘male god’ cabins on the right
side of the green. It was made of grey shell-encrusted sea rock, long and low like
a bunker, but it had windows that faced the sea and it always had a good breeze
blowing through it.
I dashed inside, wondering if maybe I could do a quick under-the-bed cleaning
job like the Hermes guys, and I found my half-brother Tyson sweeping the floor.
‘Percy!’ he bellowed. He dropped his broom and ran at me. If you’ve never
been charged by an enthusiastic Cyclops wearing a flowered apron and rubber
cleaning gloves, I’m telling you, it’ll wake you up quick.
‘Hey, big guy!’ I said. ‘Ow, watch the ribs. The ribs.’
I managed to survive his bear hug. He put me down, grinning like crazy, his
single calf-brown eye full of excitement. His teeth were as yellow and crooked
as ever, and his hair was a rat’s nest. He wore ragged XXXL jeans and a tattered
flannel shirt under his flowered apron, but he was still a sight for sore eyes. I
hadn’t seen him in almost a year, since he’d gone under the sea to work at the
Cyclopes’ forges.
‘You are okay?’ he asked. ‘Not eaten by monsters?’
‘Not even a little bit.’ I showed him that I still had both arms and both legs,
and Tyson clapped happily.
‘Yay!’ he said. ‘Now we can eat peanut butter sandwiches and ride fish
ponies! We can fight monsters and see Annabeth and make things go BOOM!’
I hoped he didn’t mean all at the same time, but I told him absolutely, we’d
have a lot of fun this summer. I couldn’t help smiling; he was so enthusiastic
about everything.
‘But first,’ I said, ‘we’ve gotta worry about inspection. We should…’
Then I looked around and realized Tyson had been busy. The floor was swept.
The bunk beds were made. The saltwater fountain in the corner had been freshly
scrubbed so the coral gleamed. On the windowsills, Tyson had set out waterfilled vases with sea anemones and strange glowing plants from the bottom of
the ocean, more beautiful than any flower bouquets the Demeter kids could whip
up.
‘Tyson, the cabin looks… amazing!’
He beamed. ‘See the fish ponies? I put them on the ceiling!’
A herd of miniature bronze hippocampi hung on wires from the ceiling, so it
looked like they were swimming through the air. I couldn’t believe Tyson, with
his huge hands, could make things so delicate. Then I looked over at my bunk,
and I saw my old shield hanging on the wall.
‘You fixed it!’
The shield had been badly damaged in a manticore attack last winter, but now
it was perfect again – not a scratch. All the bronze pictures of my adventures
with Tyson and Annabeth in the Sea of Monsters were polished and gleaming.
I looked at Tyson. I didn’t know how to thank him.
Then somebody behind me said, ‘Oh, my.’
Silena Beauregard was standing in the doorway with her inspection scroll. She
stepped into the cabin, did a quick twirl, then raised her eyebrows at me. ‘Well, I
had my doubts. But you clean up nicely, Percy. I’ll remember that.’
She winked at me and left the room.
Tyson and I spent the afternoon catching up and just hanging out, which was
nice after a morning of getting attacked by demon cheerleaders.
We went down to the forge and helped Beckendorf from the Hephaestus cabin
with his metalworking. Tyson showed us how he’d learned to craft magic
weapons. He fashioned a flaming double-bladed war axe so fast even
Beckendorf was impressed.
While he worked, Tyson told us about his year under the sea. His eye lit up
when he described the Cyclopes’ forges and the palace of Poseidon, but he also
told us how tense things were. The old gods of the sea, who’d ruled during Titan
times, were starting to make war on our father. When Tyson had left, battles
were raging all over the Atlantic. Hearing that made me feel anxious, like I
should be helping out, but Tyson assured me that Dad wanted us both at camp.
‘Lots of bad people above the sea, too,’ Tyson said. ‘We can make them go
boom.’
After the forges, we spent some time at the canoe lake with Annabeth. She
was really glad to see Tyson, but I could tell she was distracted. She kept looking
over at the forest, like she was thinking about Grover’s problem with the council.
I couldn’t blame her. Grover was nowhere to be seen, and I felt really bad for
him. Finding the lost god Pan had been his lifelong goal. His father and his uncle
had both disappeared, following the same dream. Last winter, Grover had heard
a voice in his head: I await you – a voice he was sure belonged to Pan – but
apparently his search had led nowhere. If the council took away his searcher’s
licence now, it would crush him.
‘What’s this “other way”?’ I asked Annabeth. ‘The thing Clarisse mentioned?’
She picked up a stone and skipped it across the lake. ‘Something Clarisse
scouted out. I helped her a little this spring. But it would be dangerous.
Especially for Grover.’
‘Goat boy scares me,’ Tyson murmured.
I stared at him. Tyson had faced down fire-breathing bulls and sea monsters
and cannibal giants. ‘Why would you be scared of Grover?’
‘Hooves and horns,’ Tyson muttered nervously. ‘And goat fur makes my nose
itchy.’
And that pretty much ended our Grover conversation.
Before dinner, Tyson and I went down to the sword arena. Quintus was glad to
have company. He still wouldn’t tell me what was in the wooden crates, but he
did teach me a few sword moves. The guy was good. He fought the way some
people play chess – like he was putting all the moves together and you couldn’t
see the pattern until he made the last stroke and won with a sword at your throat.
‘Good try,’ he told me. ‘But your guard is too low.’
He lunged and I blocked.
‘Have you always been a swordsman?’ I asked.
He parried my overhead cut. ‘I’ve been many things.’
He jabbed and I sidestepped. His shoulder strap slipped down, and I saw that
mark on his shoulder – the purple blotch. But it wasn’t a random mark. It had a
definite shape – a bird with folded wings, like a quail or something.
‘What’s that on your neck?’ I asked, which was probably a rude question, but
you can blame my ADHD. I tend to just blurt things out.
Quintus lost his rhythm. I hit his sword hilt and knocked the blade out of his
hand.
He rubbed his fingers. Then he shifted his armour to hide the mark. It wasn’t a
tattoo, I realized. It was an old burn… like he’d been branded.
‘A reminder.’ He picked up his sword and forced a smile. ‘Now, shall we go
again?’
He pressed me hard, not giving me time for any more questions.
While he and I fought, Tyson played with Mrs O’Leary, whom he called the
‘little doggie’. They had a great time wrestling for the bronze shield and playing
Get the Greek. By sunset, Quintus hadn’t even broken a sweat, which seemed
kind of strange, but Tyson and I were hot and sticky, so we hit the showers and
got ready for dinner.
I was feeling good. It was almost like a normal day at camp. Then dinner
came, and all the campers lined up by their cabins and marched into the dining
pavilion. Most of them ignored the sealed fissure in the marble floor at the
entrance – a three-metre-long jagged scar that hadn’t been there last summer –
but I was careful to step over it.
‘Big crack,’ Tyson said when we were at our table. ‘Earthquake, maybe?’
‘No,’ I said. ‘Not an earthquake.’
I wasn’t sure I should tell him. It was a secret only Annabeth and Grover and I
knew. But looking in Tyson’s big eye, I knew I couldn’t hide anything from him.
‘Nico di Angelo,’ I said, lowering my voice. ‘He’s this half-blood kid we
brought to camp last winter. He, uh… he asked me to guard his sister on a quest,
and I failed. She died. Now he blames me.’
Tyson frowned. ‘So he put a crack in the floor?’
‘These skeletons attacked us,’ I said. ‘Nico told them to go away, and the
ground just opened up and swallowed them. Nico…’ I looked around to make
sure no one was listening. ‘Nico is a son of Hades.’
Tyson nodded thoughtfully. ‘The god of dead people.’
‘Yeah.’
‘So the Nico boy is gone now?’
‘I – I guess. I tried to search for him this spring. So did Annabeth. But we
didn’t have any luck. This is secret, Tyson. Okay? If anyone found out he is a
son of Hades, he would be in danger. You can’t even tell Chiron.’
‘The bad prophecy,’ Tyson said. ‘Titans might use him if they knew.’
I stared at him. Sometimes it was easy to forget that, as big and childlike as he
was, Tyson was pretty smart. He knew that the next child of the Big Three gods
– Zeus, Poseidon or Hades – who turned sixteen was prophesied to either save or
destroy Mount Olympus. Most people assumed that meant me, but if I died
before I turned sixteen, the prophecy could just as easily apply to Nico.
‘Exactly,’ I said. ‘So –’
‘Mouth sealed,’ Tyson promised. ‘Like the crack in the ground.’
∗ ∗ ∗
I had trouble falling asleep that night. I lay in bed listening to the waves on the
beach, and the owls and monsters in the woods. I was afraid once I drifted off I’d
have nightmares.
See, for half-bloods, dreams are hardly ever just dreams. We get messages. We
see things that are happening to our friends or enemies. Sometimes we even
glimpse the past or the future. And at camp, my dreams were always more
frequent and vivid.
So I was still awake around midnight, staring at the bunk-bed mattress above
me, when I realized there was a strange light in the room. The saltwater fountain
was glowing.
I threw off the covers and walked cautiously towards it. Steam rose from the
hot salt water. Rainbow colours shimmered through it, though there was no light
in the room except for the moon outside. Then a pleasant female voice spoke
from the steam: Please deposit one drachma.
I looked over at Tyson, but he was still snoring. He sleeps about as heavily as
a tranquillized elephant.
I didn’t know what to think. I’d never had a collect Iris-message before. One
golden drachma gleamed at the bottom of the fountain. I scooped it up and
tossed it through the Mist. The coin vanished.
‘O, Iris, Goddess of the Rainbow,’ I whispered. ‘Show me… uh, whatever you
need to show me.’
The Mist shimmered. I saw the dark shore of a river. Wisps of fog drifted
across black water. The beach was strewn with jagged volcanic rock. A young
boy squatted at the riverbank, tending a campfire. The flames burned an
unnatural blue colour. Then I saw the boy’s face. It was Nico di Angelo. He was
throwing pieces of paper into the fire – Mythomagic trading cards, part of the
game he’d been obsessed with last winter.
Nico was only ten, or maybe eleven by now, but he looked older. His hair had
grown longer. It was shaggy and almost touched his shoulders. His eyes were
dark. His olive skin had turned paler. He wore ripped black jeans and a battered
aviator’s jacket that was several sizes too big, unzipped over a black shirt. His
face was grimy, his eyes a little wild. He looked like a kid who’d been living on
the streets.
I waited for him to look at me. No doubt he’d get crazy angry, start accusing
me of letting his sister die. But he didn’t seem to notice me.
I stayed quiet, not daring to move. If he hadn’t sent this Iris-message, who
had?
Nico tossed another trading card into the blue flames. ‘Useless,’ he muttered.
‘I can’t believe I ever liked this stuff.’
‘A childish game, master,’ another voice agreed. It seemed to come from near
the fire, but I couldn’t see who was talking.
Nico stared across the river. On the far shore was a black beach shrouded in
haze. I recognized it: the Underworld. Nico was camping at the edge of the River
Styx.
‘I’ve failed,’ he muttered. ‘There’s no way to get her back.’
The other voice kept silent.
Nico turned towards it doubtfully. ‘Is there? Speak.’
Something shimmered. I thought it was just firelight. Then I realized it was
the form of a man – a wisp of blue smoke, a shadow. If you looked at him headon, he wasn’t there. But if you looked out of the corner of your eye, you could
make out his shape. A ghost.
‘It has never been done,’ the ghost said. ‘But there may be a way.’
‘Tell me,’ Nico commanded. His eyes shone with a fierce light.
‘An exchange,’ the ghost said. ‘A soul for a soul.’
‘I’ve offered!’
‘Not yours,’ the ghost said. ‘You cannot offer your father a soul he will
eventually collect anyway. Nor will he be anxious for the death of his son. I
mean a soul that should have died already. Someone who has cheated death.’
Nico’s face darkened. ‘Not that again. You’re talking about murder.’
‘I’m talking about justice,’ the ghost said. ‘Vengeance.’
‘Those are not the same thing.’
The ghost laughed dryly. ‘You will learn differently as you get older.’
Nico stared at the flames. ‘Why can’t I at least summon her? I want to talk to
her. She would… she would help me.’
‘I will help you,’ the ghost promised. ‘Have I not saved you many times? Did
I not lead you through the maze and teach you to use your powers? Do you want
revenge for your sister or not?’
I didn’t like the ghost’s tone of voice. He reminded me of a kid at my old
school, a bully who used to convince other kids to do stupid things like steal lab
equipment and vandalize the teachers’ cars. The bully never got into trouble
himself, but he got tons of other kids suspended.
Nico turned from the fire so the ghost couldn’t see him, but I could. A tear
traced its way down his face. ‘Very well. You have a plan?’
‘Oh, yes,’ the ghost said, sounding quite pleased. ‘We have many dark roads
to travel. We must start –’
The image shimmered. Nico vanished. The woman’s voice from the Mist said,
Please deposit one drachma for another five minutes.
There were no other coins in the fountain. I grabbed for my pockets, but I was
wearing pyjamas. I lunged for the nightstand to check for spare change, but the
Iris-message had already blinked out, and the room went dark again. The
connection was broken.
I stood in the middle of the cabin, listening to the gurgle of the saltwater
fountain and the ocean waves outside.
Nico was alive. He was trying to bring his sister back from the dead. And I
had a feeling I knew whose soul he wanted to exchange – someone who had
cheated death. Vengeance.
Nico di Angelo would come looking for me.