CHAPTER 1: My Best Friend Shops for a Wedding Dress
My nightmare started like this.
I was standing on a deserted street in some little beach town. It was the middle
of the night. A storm was blowing. Wind and rain ripped at the palm trees along
the sidewalk. Pink and yellow stucco buildings lined the street, their windows
boarded up. A block away, past a line of hibiscus bushes, the ocean churned.
Florida, I thought. Though I wasn’t sure how I knew that. I’d never been to
Florida.
Then I heard hooves clattering against the pavement. I turned and saw my
friend Grover running for his life.
Yeah, I said hooves.
Grover is a satyr. From the waist up, he looks like a typical gangly teenager
with a peach-fuzz goatee and a bad case of acne. He walks with a strange limp,
but unless you happen to catch him without his trousers on (which I don’t
recommend), you’d never know there was anything un-human about him. Baggy
jeans and fake feet hide the fact that he’s got furry hindquarters and hooves.
Grover had been my best friend in sixth grade. He’d gone on this adventure
with me and a girl named Annabeth to save the world, but I hadn’t seen him
since last July, when he set off alone on a dangerous quest – a quest no satyr had
ever returned from.
Anyway, in my dream, Grover was hauling goat tail, holding his human shoes
in his hands the way he does when he needs to move fast. He clopped past the
little tourist shops and surfboard rental places. The wind bent the palm trees
almost to the ground.
Grover was terrified of something behind him. He must’ve just come from the
beach. Wet sand was caked in his fur. He’d escaped from somewhere. He was
trying to get away from … something.
A bone-rattling growl cut through the storm. Behind Grover, at the far end of
the block, a shadowy figure loomed. It swatted aside a street lamp, which burst
in a shower of sparks.
Grover stumbled, whimpering in fear. He muttered to himself, Have to get
away. Have to warn them!
I couldn’t see what was chasing him, but I could hear it muttering and cursing.
The ground shook as it got closer. Grover dashed around a street corner and
faltered. He’d run into a dead-end courtyard full of shops. No time to back up.
The nearest door had been blown open by the storm. The sign above the
darkened display window read: , ST AUGUSTINE BRIDAL BOUTIQUE.
Grover dashed inside. He dived behind a rack of wedding dresses.
The monster’s shadow passed in front of the shop. I could smell the thing – a
sickening combination of wet sheep wool and rotten meat and that weird sour
body odour only monsters have, like a skunk that’s been living off Mexican
food.
Grover trembled behind the wedding dresses. The monster’s shadow passed
on.
Silence except for the rain. Grover took a deep breath. Maybe the thing was
gone.
Then lightning flashed. The entire front of the store exploded, and a
monstrous voice bellowed, ‘MIIIIINE!’
I sat bolt upright, shivering in my bed.
There was no storm. No monster.
Morning sunlight filtered through my bedroom window.
I thought I saw a shadow flicker across the glass – a humanlike shape. But
then there was a knock on my bedroom door – my mom called, ‘Percy, you’re
going to be late’ – and the shadow at the window disappeared.
It must’ve been my imagination. A fifth-storey window with a rickety old fire
escape … there couldn’t have been anyone out there.
‘Come on, dear,’ my mother called again. ‘Last day of school. You should be
excited! You’ve almost made it!’
‘Coming,’ I managed.
I felt under my pillow. My fingers closed reassuringly around the ballpoint
pen I always slept with. I brought it out, studied the Ancient Greek writing
engraved on the side: Anaklusmos. Riptide.
I thought about uncapping it, but something held me back. I hadn’t used
Riptide for so long …
Besides, my mom had made me promise not to use deadly weapons in the
apartment after I’d swung a javelin the wrong way and taken out her china
cabinet. I put Anaklusmos on my nightstand and dragged myself out of bed.
I got dressed as quickly as I could. I tried not to think about my nightmare or
monsters or the shadow at my window.
Have to get away. Have to warn them!
What had Grover meant?
I made a three-fingered claw over my heart and pushed outwards – an ancient
gesture Grover had once taught me for warding off evil.
The dream couldn’t have been real.
Last day of school. My mom was right, I should have been excited. For the
first time in my life, I’d almost made it an entire year without getting expelled.
No weird accidents. No fights in the classroom. No teachers turning into
monsters and trying to kill me with poisoned cafeteria food or exploding
homework. Tomorrow, I’d be on my way to my favourite place in the world –
Camp Half-Blood.
Only one more day to go. Surely even I couldn’t mess that up.
As usual, I didn’t have a clue how wrong I was.
My mom made blue waffles and blue eggs for breakfast. She’s funny that way,
celebrating special occasions with blue food. I think it’s her way of saying
anything is possible. Percy can pass seventh grade. Waffles can be blue. Little
miracles like that.
I ate at the kitchen table while my mom washed dishes. She was dressed in her
work uniform – a starry blue skirt and a red-and-white striped blouse she wore to
sell candy at Sweet on America. Her long brown hair was pulled back in a
ponytail.
The waffles tasted great, but I guess I wasn’t digging in like I usually did. My
mom looked over and frowned. ‘Percy, are you all right?’
‘Yeah … fine.’
But she could always tell when something was bothering me. She dried her
hands and sat down across from me. ‘School, or…’
She didn’t need to finish. I knew what she was asking.
‘I think Grover’s in trouble,’ I said, and I told her about my dream.
She pursed her lips. We didn’t talk much about the other part of my life. We
tried to live as normally as possible, but my mom knew all about Grover.
‘I wouldn’t be too worried, dear,’ she said. ‘Grover is a big satyr now. If there
were a problem, I’m sure we would’ve heard from … from camp…’ Her
shoulders tensed as she said the word camp.
‘What is it?’ I asked.
‘Nothing,’ she said. ‘I’ll tell you what. This afternoon we’ll celebrate the end
of school. I’ll take you and Tyson to Rockefeller Center – to that skateboard
shop you like.’
Oh, man, that was tempting. We were always struggling with money. Between
my mom’s night classes and my private school tuition, we could never afford to
do special stuff like shop for a skateboard. But something in her voice bothered
me.
‘Wait a minute,’ I said. ‘I thought we were packing me up for camp tonight.’
She twisted her dishcloth. ‘Ah, dear, about that … I got a message from
Chiron last night.’
My heart sank. Chiron was the activities director at Camp Half-Blood. He
wouldn’t contact us unless something serious was going on. ‘What did he say?’
‘He thinks … it might not be safe for you to come to camp just yet. We might
have to postpone.’
‘Postpone? Mom, how could it not be safe? I’m a half-blood! It’s like the only
safe place on earth for me!’
‘Usually, dear. But with the problems they’re having –’
‘What problems?’
‘Percy … I’m very, very sorry. I was hoping to talk to you about it this
afternoon. I can’t explain it all now. I’m not even sure Chiron can. Everything
happened so suddenly.’
My mind was reeling. How could I not go to camp? I wanted to ask a million
questions, but just then the kitchen clock chimed the half-hour.
My mom looked almost relieved. ‘Seven thirty, dear. You should go. Tyson
will be waiting.’
‘But –’
‘Percy, we’ll talk this afternoon. Go on to school.’
That was the last thing I wanted to do, but my mom had this fragile look in her
eyes – a kind of warning, like if I pushed her too hard she’d start to cry. Besides,
she was right about my friend Tyson. I had to meet him at the subway station on
time or he’d get upset. He was scared of travelling underground alone.
I gathered up my stuff, but I stopped in the doorway. ‘Mom, this problem at
camp. Does it … could it have anything to do with my dream about Grover?’
She wouldn’t meet my eyes. ‘We’ll talk this afternoon, dear. I’ll explain … as
much as I can.’
Reluctantly, I told her goodbye. I jogged downstairs to catch the Number Two
train.
I didn’t know it at the time, but my mom and I would never get to have our
afternoon talk.
In fact, I wouldn’t be seeing home for a long, long time.
As I stepped outside, I glanced at the brownstone building across the street.
Just for a second I saw a dark shape in the morning sunlight – a human silhouette
against the brick wall, a shadow that belonged to no one.
Then it rippled and vanished.