CHAPTER 6: An Old Dead Friend Comes To Visit
The next morning after breakfast, I told Grover about my dream. We sat in the
meadow watching the satyrs chase the wood nymphs through the snow. The
nymphs had promised to kiss the satyrs if they got caught, but they hardly ever
did. Usually the nymph would let the satyr get up a full head of steam, then
she’d turn into a snow-covered tree and the poor satyr would slam into it head
first and get a pile of snow dumped on him.
When I told Grover my nightmare, he started twirling his finger in his shaggy
leg fur.
‘A cave ceiling collapsed on her?’ he asked.
‘Yeah. What the heck does that mean?’
Grover shook his head. ‘I don’t know. But after what Zoë dreamed –’
‘Whoa. What do you mean? Zoë had a dream like that?’
‘I… I don’t know, exactly. About three in the morning she came to the Big
House and demanded to talk to Chiron. She looked really panicked.’
‘Wait, how do you know this?’
Grover blushed. ‘I was sort of camped outside the Artemis cabin.’
‘What for?’
‘Just to be, you know, near them.’
‘You’re a stalker with hooves.’
‘I am not! Anyway, I followed her to the Big House and hid in a bush and
watched the whole thing. She got really upset when Argus wouldn’t let her in. It
was kind of a dangerous scene.’
I tried to imagine that. Argus was the head of security for camp – a big blond
dude with eyes all over his body. He rarely showed himself unless something
serious was going on. I wouldn’t want to place bets on a fight between him and
Zoë Nightshade.
‘What did she say?’ I asked.
Grover grimaced. ‘Well, she starts talking really old-fashioned when she gets
upset, so it was kind of hard to understand. But something about Artemis being
in trouble and needing the Hunters. And then she called Argus a boil-brained
lout… I think that’s a bad thing. And then he called her –’
‘Whoa, wait. How could Artemis be in trouble?’
‘I… well, finally Chiron came out in his pyjamas and his horse tail in curlers
and –’
‘He wears curlers in his tail?’
Grover covered his mouth.
‘Sorry,’ I said. ‘Go on.’
‘Well, Zoë said she needed permission to leave camp immediately. Chiron
refused. He reminded Zoë that the Hunters were supposed to stay here until they
received orders from Artemis. And she said…’ Grover gulped. ‘She said, “How
are we to get orders from Artemis if Artemis is lost?”’
‘What do you mean lost? Like she needs directions?’
‘No. I think she meant gone. Taken. Kidnapped.’
‘Kidnapped?’ I tried to get my mind round that idea. ‘How would you kidnap
an immortal goddess? Is that even possible?’
‘Well, yeah. I mean, it happened to Persephone.’
‘But she was like, the goddess of flowers.’
Grover looked offended. ‘Springtime.’
‘Whatever. Artemis is a lot more powerful than that. Who could kidnap her?
And why?’
Grover shook his head miserably. ‘I don’t know. Kronos?’
‘He can’t be that powerful already. Can he?’
The last time we’d seen Kronos, he’d been in tiny pieces. Well… we hadn’t
actually seen him. Thousands of years ago, after the big Titan-God war, the gods
had sliced him to bits with his own scythe and scattered his remains in Tartarus,
which is like the gods’ bottomless recycling bin for their enemies. Two summers
ago, Kronos had tricked us to the very edge of the pit and almost pulled us in.
Then last summer, on board Luke’s demon cruise ship, we’d seen a golden
coffin, where Luke claimed he was summoning the Titan Lord out of the abyss,
bit by bit, every time someone new joined their cause. Kronos could influence
people with dreams and trick them, but I didn’t see how he could physically
overcome Artemis if he were still like a pile of evil bark mulch.
‘I don’t know,’ Grover said. ‘I think somebody would know if Kronos had reformed. The gods would be more nervous. But, still, it’s weird – you having a
nightmare the same night as Zoë. It’s almost like –’
‘They’re connected,’ I said.
Over in the frozen meadow, a satyr skidded on his hooves as he chased after a
redheaded tree nymph. She giggled and held out her arms as he ran towards her.
Pop! She turned into a Scotch pine and he kissed the trunk at top speed.
‘Ah, love,’ Grover said dreamily.
I thought about Zoë’s nightmare, which she’d had only a few hours after mine.
‘I’ve got to talk to Zoë,’ I said.
‘Um, before you do…’ Grover took something out of his coat pocket. It was a
three-fold display like a travel brochure. ‘You remember what you said – about
how it was weird the Hunters just happened to show up at Westover Hall? I think
they might’ve been scouting us.’
‘Scouting us? What do you mean?’
He gave me the brochure. It was about the Hunters of Artemis. The front read,
A WISE CHOICE FOR YOUR FUTURE! Inside were pictures of young
maidens doing hunter stuff, chasing monsters, shooting bows. There were
captions like: HEALTH BENEFITS: IMMORTALITY AND WHAT IT MEANS
FOR YOU! And A BOY-FREE TOMORROW!
‘I found that in Annabeth’s backpack,’ Grover said.
I stared at him. ‘I don’t understand.’
‘Well, it seems to me… maybe Annabeth was thinking about joining.’
I’d like to say I took the news well.
The truth was I wanted to strangle the Hunters of Artemis one eternal maiden
at a time. The rest of the day I tried to keep busy, but I was worried sick about
Annabeth. I went to javelin-throwing class, but the Ares camper in charge yelled
at me after I got distracted and threw the javelin at the target before he got out of
the way. I apologized for the hole in his trousers, but he still sent me packing.
I visited the pegasus stables, but Silena Beauregard from the Aphrodite cabin
was having an argument with one of the Hunters, and I decided I’d better not get
involved.
After that, I sat in the empty chariot stands and sulked. Down at the archery
fields, Chiron was conducting target practice. I knew he’d be the best person to
talk to. Maybe he could give me some advice, but something held me back. I had
a feeling Chiron would try to protect me, like he always did. He might not tell
me everything he knew.
I looked in the other direction. At the top of Half-Blood Hill, Mr D and Argus
were feeding the baby dragon that guarded the Golden Fleece.
Then it occurred to me: no one would be in the Big House. There was
someone else… something else I could ask for guidance.
My blood was humming in my ears as I ran into the house and took the stairs.
I’d only done this once before, and I still had nightmares about it. I opened the
trapdoor and stepped into the attic.
The room was dark and dusty and cluttered with junk, just like I remembered.
There were shields with monster bites out of them, and swords bent in the shapes
of daemon heads, and a bunch of taxidermy, like a stuffed harpy and a bright
orange python.
Over by the window, sitting on a three-legged stool, was the shrivelled-up
mummy of an old lady in a tie-dyed hippie dress. The Oracle.
I made myself walk towards her. I waited for green mist to billow from the
mummy’s mouth, like it had before, but nothing happened.
‘Hi,’ I said. ‘Uh, what’s up?’
I winced at how stupid that sounded. Not much could be ‘up’ when you’re
dead and stuck in the attic. But I knew the spirit of the Oracle was in there
somewhere. I could feel a cold presence in the room, like a coiled sleeping
snake.
‘I have a question,’ I said a little louder. ‘I need to know about Annabeth. How
can I save her?’
No answer. The sun slanted through the dirty attic window, making the dust
motes dance in the air.
I waited longer.
Then I got angry. I was being stonewalled by a corpse.
‘All right,’ I said. ‘Fine. I’ll figure it out myself.’
I turned and bumped into a big table full of souvenirs. It seemed more
cluttered than the last time I was here. Heroes stored all kinds of stuff in the
attic: quest trophies they no longer wanted to keep in their cabins, or stuff that
held painful memories. I knew Luke had stored a dragon claw somewhere up
here – the one that had scarred his face. There was a broken sword hilt labelled:
This broke and Leroy got killed. 1999.
Then I noticed a pink silk scarf with a label attached to it. I picked up the tag
and tried to read it:
SCARF OF THE GODDESS APHRODITE
Recovered at Waterland, Denver, Co.,
by Annabeth Chase and Percy Jackson
I stared at the scarf. I’d totally forgotten about it. Two years ago, Annabeth had
ripped this scarf out of my hands and said something like, Oh, no. No love magic
for you!
I’d just assumed she’d thrown it away. And yet here it was. She’d kept it all
this time? And why had she stashed it in the attic?
I turned to the mummy. She hadn’t moved, but the shadows across her face
made it look like she was smiling gruesomely.
I dropped the scarf and tried not to run towards the exit.
That night after dinner, I was seriously ready to beat the Hunters at capture the
flag. It was going to be a small game. Only thirteen Hunters, including Bianca di
Angelo, and about the same number of campers.
Zoë Nightshade looked pretty upset. She kept glancing resentfully at Chiron,
like she couldn’t believe he was making her do this. The other Hunters didn’t
look too happy either. Unlike last night, they weren’t laughing or joking around.
They just huddled together in the dining pavilion, whispering nervously to each
other as they strapped on their armour. Some of them even looked like they’d
been crying. I guess Zoë had told them about her nightmare.
On our team, we had Beckendorf and two other Hephaestus guys, a few from
the Ares cabin (though it still seemed strange that Clarisse wasn’t around), the
Stoll brothers and Nico from Hermes cabin, and a few Aphrodite kids. It was
weird that the Aphrodite cabin wanted to play. Usually they sat on the sidelines,
chatted and checked their reflections in the river and stuff, but when they heard
we were fighting the Hunters, they were raring to go.
‘I’ll show them “love is worthless”,’ Silena Beauregard grumbled as she
strapped on her armour. I’ll pulverize them!’
That left Thalia and me.
‘I’ll take the offence,’ Thalia volunteered. ‘You take defence.’
‘Oh.’ I hesitated, because I’d been about to say the exact same thing, only
reversed. ‘Don’t you think, with your shield and all, you’d be better defence?’
Thalia already had Aegis on her arm, and even our own teammates were
giving her a wide berth, trying not to cower before the bronze head of Medusa.
‘Well, I was thinking it would make better offence,’ Thalia said. ‘Besides,
you’ve had more practice at defence.’
I wasn’t sure if she was teasing me. I’d had some pretty bad experiences with
defence on capture the flag. My first year, Annabeth had put me out as a kind of
bait, and I’d almost been gored to death with spears and killed by a hellhound.
‘Yeah, no problem,’ I lied.
‘Cool.’ Thalia turned to help some of the Aphrodite kids, who were having
trouble suiting up their armour without breaking their nails. Nico di Angelo ran
up to me with a big grin on his face.
‘Percy, this is awesome!’ His blue-feathered bronze helmet was falling in his
eyes, and his breastplate was about six sizes too big. I wondered if there was any
way I’d looked that ridiculous when I’d first arrived. Unfortunately, I probably
had.
Nico lifted his sword with effort. ‘Do we get to kill the other team?’
‘Well… no.’
‘But the Hunters are immortal, right?’
‘That’s only if they don’t fall in battle. Besides –’
‘It would be awesome if we just, like, resurrected as soon as we were killed,
so we could keep fighting, and –’
‘Nico, this is serious. Real swords. These can hurt.’
He stared at me, a little disappointed, and I realized that I’d just sounded like
my mother. Whoa. Not a good sign.
I patted Nico on the shoulder. ‘Hey, it’s cool. Just follow the team. Stay out of
Zoë’s way. We’ll have a blast.’
Chiron’s hoof thundered on the pavilion floor.
‘Heroes!’ he called. ‘You know the rules! The river is the boundary line. Blue
team, Camp Half-Blood, shall take the west woods. Hunters of Artemis, red
team, shall take the east woods. I will serve as referee and battlefield medic. No
intentional maiming, please! All magic items are allowed. To your positions!’
‘Sweet,’ Nico whispered next to me. ‘What kind of magic items? Do I get
one?’
I was about to break it to him that he didn’t, when Thalia said, ‘Blue team!
Follow me!’
They cheered and followed. I had to run to catch up, and tripped over
somebody’s shield, so I didn’t look much like a co-captain. More like an idiot.
We set our flag at the top of Zeus’s Fist. It’s this cluster of boulders in the middle
of the west woods that, if you look at it just the right way, looks like a huge fist
sticking out of the ground. If you look at it from any other side, it looks like a
pile of enormous deer droppings, but Chiron wouldn’t let us call the place the
Poop Pile, especially after it had been named for Zeus, who doesn’t have much
of a sense of humor.
Anyway, it was a good place to set the flag. The top boulder was six metres
tall and really hard to climb, so the flag was clearly visible, like the rules said it
had to be, and it didn’t matter that the guards weren’t allowed to stand within ten
metres of it.
I set Nico on guard duty with Beckendorf and the Stoll brothers, figuring he’d
be safely out of the way.
‘We’ll send out a decoy to the left,’ Thalia told the team. ‘Silena, you lead
that.’
‘Got it!’
‘Take Laurel and Jason. They’re good runners. Make a wide arc round the
Hunters, attract as many as you can. I’ll take the main raiding party round to the
right and catch them by surprise.’
Everybody nodded. It sounded good, and Thalia said it with such confidence
you couldn’t help but believe it would work.
Thalia looked at me. ‘Anything to add, Percy?’
‘Um, yeah. Keep sharp on defence. We’ve got four guards, two scouts. That’s
not much for a big forest. I’ll be roving. Yell if you need help.’
‘And don’t leave your post!’ Thalia said.
‘Unless you see a golden opportunity,’ I added.
Thalia scowled. ‘Just don’t leave your post.’
‘Right, unless –’
‘Percy!’ She touched my arm and shocked me. I mean, everybody can give
static shocks in the winter, but when Thalia does, it hurts. I guess it’s because her
dad is the god of lightning. She’s been known to fry off people’s eyebrows.
‘Sorry,’ Thalia said, though she didn’t sound particularly sorry. ‘Now, is
everybody clear?’
Everybody nodded. We broke into our smaller groups. The horn sounded, and
the game began.
Silena’s group disappeared into the woods on the left. Thalia’s group gave it a
few seconds, then darted off towards the right.
I waited for something to happen. I climbed Zeus’s Fist and had a good view
over the forest. I remembered how the Hunters had stormed out of the woods
when they fought the manticore, and I was prepared for something like that –
one huge charge that could overwhelm us. But nothing happened.
I caught a glimpse of Silena and her two scouts. They ran through a clearing,
followed by five of the Hunters, leading them deep into the woods and away
from Thalia. The plan seemed to be working. Then I spotted another clump of
Hunters heading to the right, bows ready. They must’ve spotted Thalia.
‘What’s happening?’ Nico demanded, trying to climb up next to me.
My mind was racing. Thalia would never get through, but the Hunters were
divided. With that many on either flank, their centre had to be wide open. If I
moved fast…
I looked at Beckendorf. ‘Can you guys hold the fort?’
Beckendorf snorted. ‘Of course.’
‘I’m going in.’
The Stoll brothers and Nico cheered as I raced towards the boundary line.
I was running at top speed and I felt great. I leaped over the creek into enemy
territory. I could see their silver flag up ahead, only one guard, who wasn’t even
looking in my direction. I heard fighting to my left and right, somewhere in the
woods. I had it made.
The guard turned at the last minute. It was Bianca di Angelo. Her eyes
widened as I slammed into her and she went sprawling in the snow.
‘Sorry!’ I yelled. I ripped down the silver silk flag from the tree and took off.
I was ten metres away before Bianca managed to yell for help. I thought I was
home free.
ZIP! A silvery cord raced across my ankles and fastened to the tree next to me.
A trip wire, fired from a bow! Before I could even think about stopping I went
down hard, sprawling in the snow.
‘Percy!’ Thalia yelled, off to my left. ‘What are you doing?’
Before she reached me, an arrow exploded at her feet and a cloud of yellow
smoke billowed around her team. They started coughing and gagging. I could
smell the gas from across the woods – the horrible smell of sulphur.
‘No fair!’ Thalia gasped. ‘Fart arrows are unsportsmanlike!’
I got up and started running again. Only a few more metres to the river and I
had the game. More arrows whizzed past my ears. A Hunter came out of
nowhere and slashed at me with her knife, but I parried and kept running.
I heard yelling from our side of the river. Beckendorf and Nico were running
towards me. I thought they were coming to welcome me back, but then I saw
they were chasing someone – Zoë Nightshade, racing towards me like a cheetah,
dodging campers with no trouble. And she had our flag in her hands.
‘No!’ I yelled, and poured on the speed.
I was a metre from the water when Zoë bolted across to her own side,
slamming into me for good measure. The Hunters cheered as both sides
converged on the creek. Chiron appeared out of the woods, looking grim. He had
the Stoll brothers on his back, and it looked as if both of them had taken some
nasty whacks to the head. Connor Stoll had two arrows sticking out of his helmet
like antennae.
‘The Hunters win!’ Chiron announced without pleasure. Then he muttered,
‘For the fifty-sixth time in a row.’
‘Perseus Jackson!’ Thalia yelled, storming towards me. She smelled like
rotten eggs, and she was so mad that blue sparks flickered on her armour.
Everybody cringed and backed up because of Aegis. It took all my willpower not
to cower.
‘What in the name of the gods were you THINKING?’she bellowed.
I balled my fists. I’d had enough bad stuff happen to me for one day. I didn’t
need this. ‘I got the flag, Thalia!’ I shook it in her face. ‘I saw a chance and I
took it!’
‘I WAS AT THEIR BASE!’ Thalia yelled. ‘But the flag was gone. If you
hadn’t butted in, we would’ve won.’
‘You had too many on you!’
‘Oh, so it’s my fault?’
‘I didn’t say that.’
‘Argh!’ Thalia pushed me, and a shock went through my body that blew me
backwards three metres into the water. Some of the campers gasped. A couple of
the Hunters stifled laughs.
‘Sorry!’ Thalia said, turning pale. ‘I didn’t mean to –’
Anger roared in my ears. A wave erupted from the river, blasting into Thalia’s
face and dousing her from head to toe.
I stood up. ‘Yeah,’ I growled. ‘I didn’t mean to either.’
Thalia was breathing heavily.
‘Enough!’ Chiron ordered.
But Thalia held out her spear. ‘You want some, Seaweed Brain?’
Somehow, it was okay when Annabeth called me that – at least, I’d got used to
it – but hearing it from Thalia was not cool.
‘Bring it on, Pinecone Face!’
I raised Riptide, but before I could even defend myself, Thalia yelled, and a
blast of lightning came down from the sky, hit her spear like a lightning rod, and
slammed into my chest.
I sat down hard. There was a burning smell; I had a feeling it was my clothes.
‘Thalia!’ Chiron said. ‘That is enough!’
I got to my feet and willed the entire river to rise. It swirled up, hundreds of
gallons of water in a massive icy funnel cloud.
‘Percy!’ Chiron pleaded.
I was about to hurl it at Thalia when I saw something in the woods. I lost my
anger and my concentration all at once. The water splashed back into the
riverbed. Thalia was so surprised she turned to see what I was looking at.
Someone… something was approaching. It was shrouded in a murky green
mist, but as it got closer, the campers and Hunters gasped.
‘This is impossible,’ Chiron said. I’d never heard him sound so nervous. ‘It…
she has never left the attic. Never.’
And yet the withered mummy that held the Oracle shuffled forward until she
stood in the centre of the group. Mist curled around our feet, turning the snow a
sickly shade of green.
None of us dared move. Then her voice hissed inside my head. Apparently
everyone could hear it, because several clutched their hands over the ears.
I am the spirit of Delphi, the voice said. Speaker of the prophecies of Phoebus
Apollo, slayer of the mighty Python.
The Oracle regarded me with its cold, dead eyes. Then she turned
unmistakably towards Zoë Nightshade. Approach, Seeker, and ask.
Zoë swallowed. ‘What must I do to help my goddess?’
The Oracle’s mouth opened, and green mist poured out. I saw the vague image
of a mountain, and a girl standing at the barren peak. It was Artemis, but she was
wrapped in chains, fettered to the rocks. She was kneeling, her hands raised as if
to fend off an attacker, and it looked like she was in pain. The Oracle spoke:
Five shall go west to the goddess in chains,
One shall be lost in the land without rain,
The bane of Olympus shows the trail,
Campers and Hunters combined prevail,
The Titan’s curse must one withstand,
And one shall perish by a parent’s hand.
Then, as we were watching, the Mist swirled and retreated like a great green
serpent into the mummy’s mouth. The Oracle sat down on a rock and became as
still as she’d been in the attic, as if she might sit by this creek for a hundred
years.