CHAPTER 18: The Party Ponies Invade
‘One on one,’ I challenged Luke. ‘What are you afraid of?’
Luke curled his lip. The soldiers who were about to kill us hesitated, waiting
for his order.
Before he could say anything, Agrius, the bear-man, burst onto the deck
leading a flying horse. It was the first pure-black pegasus I’d ever seen, with
wings like a giant raven. The pegasus mare bucked and whinnied. I could
understand her thoughts. She was calling Agrius and Luke some names so bad
Chiron would’ve washed her muzzle out with saddle soap.
‘Sir!’ Agrius called, dodging a pegasus hoof. ‘Your steed is ready!’
Luke kept his eyes on me.
‘I told you last summer, Percy,’ he said. ‘You can’t bait me into a fight.’
‘And you keep avoiding one,’ I noticed. ‘Scared your warriors will see you get
whipped?’
Luke glanced at his men, and he saw I’d trapped him. If he backed down now,
he would look weak. If he fought me, he’d lose valuable time chasing after
Clarisse. For my part, the best I could hope for was to distract him, giving my
friends a chance to escape. If anybody could think of a plan to get them out of
there, Annabeth could. On the downside, I knew how good Luke was at swordfighting.
‘I’ll kill you quickly,’ he decided, and raised his weapon. Backbiter was a foot
longer than my own sword. Its blade glinted with an evil grey-and-gold light
where the human steel had been melded with celestial bronze. I could almost feel
the blade fighting against itself, like two opposing magnets bound together. I
didn’t know how the blade had been made, but I sensed a tragedy. Someone had
died in the process. Luke whistled to one of his men, who threw him a round
leather-and-bronze shield.
He grinned at me wickedly.
‘Luke,’ Annabeth said, ‘at least give him a shield.’
‘Sorry, Annabeth,’ he said. ‘You bring your own equipment to this party.’
The shield was a problem. Fighting two-handed with just a sword gives you
more power, but fighting one-handed with a shield gives you better defence and
versatility. There are more moves, more options, more ways to kill. I thought
back to Chiron, who’d told me to stay at camp no matter what, and learn to fight.
Now I was going to pay for not listening to him.
Luke lunged and almost killed me on the first try. His sword went under my
arm, slashing through my shirt and grazing my ribs.
I jumped back, then counter-attacked with Riptide, but Luke slammed my
blade away with his shield.
‘My, Percy,’ Luke chided. ‘You’re out of practice.’
He came at me again with a swipe to the head. I parried, returned with a
thrust. He sidestepped easily.
The cut on my ribs stung. My heart was racing. When Luke lunged again, I
jumped backwards into the swimming pool and felt a surge of strength. I spun
underwater, creating a funnel cloud, and blasted out of the deep end, straight at
Luke’s face.
The force of the water knocked him down, spluttering and blinded. But before
I could strike, he rolled aside and was on his feet again.
I attacked and sliced off the edge of his shield, but that didn’t even faze him.
He dropped to a crouch and jabbed at my legs. Suddenly my thigh was on fire,
with a pain so intense I collapsed. My jeans were ripped above the knee. I was
hurt. I didn’t know how badly. Luke hacked downwards and I rolled behind a
deckchair. I tried to stand, but my leg wouldn’t take the weight.
‘Perrrrrcy!’ Grover bleated.
I rolled again as Luke’s sword slashed the deckchair in half, metal pipes and
all.
I clawed towards the swimming pool, trying hard not to black out. I’d never
make it. Luke knew it, too. He advanced slowly, smiling. The edge of his sword
was tinged with red.
‘One thing I want you to watch before you die, Percy.’ He looked at the bearman Oreius, who was still holding Annabeth and Grover by the necks. ‘You can
eat your dinner now, Oreius. Bon appétit.’
‘He-he! He-he!’ The bear-man lifted my friends and bared his teeth.
That’s when all Hades broke loose.
Whish!
A red-feathered arrow sprouted from Oreius’s mouth. With a surprised look on
his hairy face, he crumpled to the deck.
‘Brother!’ Agrius wailed. He let the pegasus’s reins go slack just long enough
for the black steed to kick him in the head and fly away free over Miami Bay.
For a split second, Luke’s guards were too stunned to do anything except
watch the bear twins’ bodies dissolve into smoke.
Then there was a wild chorus of war cries and hooves thundering against
metal. A dozen centaurs charged out of the main stairwell.
‘Ponies!’ Tyson cried with delight.
My mind had trouble processing everything I saw. Chiron was among the
crowd, but his relatives were almost nothing like him. There were centaurs with
black Arabian stallion bodies, others with gold palomino coats, others with
orange-and-white spots like paint horses. Some wore brightly coloured T-shirts
with Day-Glo letters that said PARTY PONIES: SOUTH FLORIDA CHAPTER.
Some were armed with bows, some with baseball bats, some with paintball guns.
One had his face painted like a Comanche warrior and was waving a large
orange Styrofoam hand making a big Number I. Another was bare-chested and
painted entirely green. A third had googly-eye glasses with the eyeballs
bouncing around on Slinky coils, and one of those baseball caps with soda-canand-straw attachments on either side.
They exploded onto the deck with such ferocity and colour that for a moment
even Luke was stunned. I couldn’t tell whether they had come to celebrate or
attack.
Apparently both. As Luke was raising his sword to rally his troops, a centaur
shot a custom-made arrow with a leather boxing glove on the end. It smacked
Luke in the face and sent him crashing into the swimming pool.
His warriors scattered. I couldn’t blame them. Facing the hooves of a rearing
stallion is scary enough, but when it’s a centaur, armed with a bow and
whooping it up in a soda-drinking hat, even the bravest warrior would retreat.
‘Come get some!’ yelled one of the party ponies.
They let loose with their paintball guns. A wave of blue and yellow exploded
against Luke’s warriors, blinding them and splattering them from head to toe.
They tried to run, only to slip and fall.
Chiron galloped towards Annabeth and Grover, neatly plucked them off the
deck, and deposited them on his back.
I tried to get up, but my wounded leg still felt like it was on fire.
Luke was crawling out of the pool.
‘Attack, you fools!’ he ordered his troops. Somewhere down below deck, a
large alarm bell thrummed.
I knew any second we would be swamped by Luke’s reinforcements. Already,
his warriors were getting over their surprise, coming at the centaurs with swords
and spears drawn.
Tyson slapped half a dozen of them aside, knocking them over the guardrail
into Miami Bay. But more warriors were coming up the stairs.
‘Withdraw, brethren!’ Chiron said.
‘You won’t get away with this, horse man!’ Luke shouted. He raised his
sword, but got smacked in the face with another boxing glove arrow, and sat
down hard in a deckchair.
A palomino centaur hoisted me onto his back. ‘Dude, get your big friend!’
‘Tyson!’ I yelled. ‘Come on!’
Tyson dropped the two warriors he was about to tie into a knot and jogged
after us. He jumped on the centaur’s back.
‘Dude!’ the centaur groaned, almost buckling under Tyson’s weight. ‘Do the
words “low-carb diet” mean anything to you?’
Luke’s warriors were organizing themselves into a phalanx. But by the time
they were ready to advance, the centaurs had galloped to the edge of the deck
and fearlessly jumped the guardrail, as if it were a steeplechase and not ten
storeys above the ground. I was sure we were going to die. We plummeted
towards the docks, but the centaurs hit the tarmac with hardly a jolt and galloped
off, whooping and yelling taunts at the Princess Andromeda as we raced into the
streets of downtown Miami.
I have no idea what the Miamians thought as we galloped by.
Streets and buildings began to blur as the centaurs picked up speed. It felt as if
space were compacting – as if each centaur step took us miles and miles. In no
time, we’d left the city behind. We raced through marshy fields of high grass and
ponds and stunted trees.
Finally, we found ourselves in a trailer park at the edge of a lake. The trailers
were all horse trailers, tricked out with televisions and mini-refrigerators and
mosquito netting. We were in a centaur camp.
‘Dude!’said a party pony as he unloaded his gear. ‘Did you see that bear guy?
He was all like, “Whoa, I have an arrow in my mouth!” ’
The centaur with the googly-eye glasses laughed. ‘That was awesome! Head
slam!’
The two centaurs charged at each other full-force and knocked heads, then
went staggering off in different directions with crazy grins on their faces.
Chiron sighed. He set Annabeth and Grover down on a picnic blanket next to
me. ‘I really wish my cousins wouldn’t slam their heads together. They don’t
have the brain cells to spare.’
‘Chiron,’ I said, still stunned by the fact that he was here. ‘You saved us.’
He gave me a dry smile. ‘Well now, I couldn’t very well let you die, especially
since you’ve cleared my name.’
‘But how did you know where we were?’ Annabeth asked.
‘Advanced planning, my dear. I figured you would wash up near Miami if you
made it out of the Sea of Monsters alive. Almost everything strange washes up
near Miami.’
‘Gee, thanks,’ Grover mumbled.
‘No, no,’ Chiron said. ‘I didn’t mean … Oh, never mind. I am glad to see you,
my young satyr. The point is, I was able to eavesdrop on Percy’s Iris-message
and trace the signal. Iris and I have been friends for centuries. I asked her to alert
me to any important communications in this area. It then took no effort to
convince my cousins to ride to your aid. As you see, centaurs can travel quite
fast when we wish to. Distance for us is not the same as distance for humans.’
I looked over at the campfire, where three party ponies were teaching Tyson to
operate a paintball gun. I hoped they knew what they were getting into.
‘So what now?’ I asked Chiron. ‘We just let Luke sail away? He’s got Kronos
aboard that ship. Or parts of him, anyway.’
Chiron knelt, carefully folding his front legs underneath him. He opened the
medicine pouch on his belt and started to treat my wounds. ‘I’m afraid, Percy,
that today has been something of a draw. We didn’t have the strength of numbers
to take that ship. Luke was not organized enough to pursue us. Nobody won.’
‘But we got the Fleece!’ Annabeth said. ‘Clarisse is on her way back to camp
with it right now.’
Chiron nodded, though he still looked uneasy. ‘You are all true heroes. And as
soon as we get Percy fixed up, you must return to Half-Blood Hill. The centaurs
shall carry you.’
‘You’re coming, too?’ I asked.
‘Oh yes, Percy. I’ll be relieved to get home. My brethren here simply do not
appreciate Dean Martin’s music. Besides, I must have some words with Mr D.
There’s the rest of the summer to plan. So much training to do. And I want to see
… I’m curious about the Fleece.’
I didn’t know exactly what he meant, but it made me worried about what Luke
had said: I was going to let you take the Fleece … once I was done with it.
Had he just been lying? I’d learned with Kronos there was usually a plan
within a plan. The titan lord wasn’t called the Crooked One for nothing. He had
ways of getting people to do what he wanted without them ever realizing his true
intentions.
Over by the campfire, Tyson let loose with his paintball gun. A blue projectile
splattered against one of the centaurs, hurling him backwards into the lake. The
centaur came up grinning, covered in swamp muck and blue paint, and gave
Tyson two thumbs up.
‘Annabeth,’ Chiron said, ‘perhaps you and Grover would go supervise Tyson
and my cousins before they, ah, teach each other too many bad habits?’
Annabeth met his eyes. Some kind of understanding passed between them.
‘Sure, Chiron,’ Annabeth said. ‘Come on, goat boy.’
‘But I don’t like paintball.’
‘Yes, you do.’ She hoisted Grover to his hooves and led him off towards the
campfire.
Chiron finished bandaging my leg. ‘Percy, I had a talk with Annabeth on the
way here. A talk about the prophecy.’
Uh-oh, I thought.
‘It wasn’t her fault,’ I said. ‘I made her tell me.’
His eyes flickered with irritation. I was sure he was going to chew me out, but
then his look turned to weariness. ‘I suppose I could not expect to keep it secret
forever.’
‘So am I the one in the prophecy?’
Chiron tucked his bandages back into his pouch. ‘I wish I knew, Percy. You’re
not yet sixteen. For now we must simply train you as best we can, and leave the
future to the Fates.’
The Fates. I hadn’t thought about those old ladies in a long time, but as soon
as Chiron mentioned them, something clicked.
‘That’s what it meant,’ I said.
Chiron frowned. ‘That’s what what meant?’
‘Last summer. The omen from the Fates, when I saw them snip somebody’s
life string. I thought it meant I was going to die right away, but it’s worse than
that. It’s got something to do with your prophecy. The death they foretold – it’s
going to happen when I’m sixteen.’
Chiron’s tail whisked nervously in the grass. ‘My boy, you can’t be sure of
that. We don’t even know if the prophecy is about you.’
‘But there isn’t any other half-blood child of the Big Three!’
‘That we know of.’
‘And Kronos is rising. He’s going to destroy Mount Olympus!’
‘He will try,’ Chiron agreed. ‘And Western Civilization along with it, if we
don’t stop him. But we will stop him. You will not be alone in that fight.’
I knew he was trying to make me feel better, but I remembered what Annabeth
had told me. It would come down to one hero. One decision that would save or
destroy the West. And I felt sure the Fates had been giving me some kind of
warning about that. Something terrible was going to happen, either to me or to
somebody I was close to.
‘I’m just a kid, Chiron,’ I said miserably. ‘What good is one lousy hero against
something like Kronos?’
Chiron managed a smile. ‘ “What good is one lousy hero?’ Joshua Lawrence
Chamberlain said something like that to me once, just before he single-handedly
changed the course of your Civil War.’
He pulled an arrow from his quiver and turned the razor-sharp tip so it glinted
in the firelight. ‘Celestial bronze, Percy. An immortal weapon. What would
happen if you shot this at a human?’
‘Nothing,’ I said. ‘It would pass right through.’
‘That’s right,’ he said. ‘Humans don’t exist on the same level as the immortals.
They can’t even be hurt by our weapons. But you, Percy – you are part god, part
human. You live in both worlds. You can be harmed by both, and you can affect
both. That’s what makes heroes so special. You carry the hopes of humanity into
the realm of the eternal. Monsters never die. They are reborn from the chaos and
barbarism that is always bubbling underneath civilization, the very stuff that
makes Kronos stronger. They must be defeated again and again, kept at bay.
Heroes embody that struggle. You fight the battles humanity must win, every
generation, in order to stay human. Do you understand?’
‘I … I don’t know.’
‘You must try, Percy. Because whether or not you are the child of the
prophecy, Kronos thinks you might be. And, after today, he will finally despair
of turning you to his side. That is the only reason he hasn’t killed you yet, you
know. As soon as he’s sure he can’t use you, he will destroy you.’
‘You talk like you know him.’
Chiron pursed his lips. ‘I do know him.’
I stared at him. I sometimes forgot just how old Chiron was. ‘Is that why Mr
D blamed you when the tree was poisoned? Why you said some people don’t
trust you?’
‘Indeed.’
‘But Chiron … I mean, come on! Why would they think you’d ever betray the
camp for Kronos?’
Chiron’s eyes were deep brown, full of thousands of years of sadness. ‘Percy,
remember your training. Remember your study of mythology. What is my
connection to the titan lord?’
I tried to think, but I’d always got my mythology mixed up. Even now, when
it was so real, so important to my own life, I had trouble keeping all the names
and facts straight. I shook my head. ‘You, uh, owe Kronos a favour or
something? He spared your life?’
‘Percy,’ Chiron said, his voice impossibly soft. ‘The titan Kronos is my
father.’