CHAPTER 9: I Have the Worst Family Reunion Ever
Annabeth volunteered to go alone since she had the cap of invisibility, but I
convinced her it was too dangerous. Either we all went together, or nobody went.
‘Nobody!’ Tyson voted. ‘Please?’
But in the end he came along, nervously chewing on his huge fingernails. We
stopped at our cabin long enough to gather our stuff. We figured whatever
happened, we would not be staying another night aboard the zombie cruise ship,
even if they did have million-dollar bingo. I made sure Riptide was in my pocket
and the vitamins and flask from Hermes were at the top of my bag. I didn’t want
Tyson to carry everything, but he insisted, and Annabeth told me not to worry
about it. Tyson could carry three full duffel bags over his shoulder as easily as I
could carry a backpack.
We sneaked through the corridors, following the ship’s YOU ARE HERE
signs towards the admiralty suite. Annabeth scouted ahead invisibly. We hid
whenever someone passed by, but most of the people we saw were just glassyeyed zombie passengers.
As we came up the stairs to deck thirteen, where the admiralty suite was
supposed to be, Annabeth hissed, ‘Hide!’ and shoved us into a supply closet.
I heard a couple of guys coming down the hall.
‘You see that Aethiopian drakon in the cargo hold?’ one of them said.
The other laughed. ‘Yeah, it’s awesome.’
Annabeth was still invisible, but she squeezed my arm hard. I got a feeling I
should know that second guy’s voice.
‘I hear they got two more coming,’ the familiar voice said. ‘They keep
arriving at this rate, oh, man – no contest!’
The voices faded down the corridor.
‘That was Chris Rodriguez!’ Annabeth took off her cap and turned visible.
‘You remember – from Cabin Eleven.’
I sort of recalled Chris from the summer before. He was one of those
undetermined campers who got stuck in the Hermes cabin because his Olympian
dad or mom never claimed him. Now that I thought about it, I realized I hadn’t
seen Chris at camp this summer. ‘What’s another half-blood doing here?’
Annabeth shook her head, clearly troubled.
We kept going down the corridor. I didn’t need maps any more to know I was
getting close to Luke. I sensed something cold and unpleasant – the presence of
evil.
‘Percy.’ Annabeth stopped suddenly. ‘Look.’
She stood in front of a glass wall looking down into the multistorey canyon
that ran through the middle of the ship. At the bottom was the Promenade – a
mall full of shops – but that’s not what had caught Annabeth’s attention.
A group of monsters had assembled in front of the candy store: a dozen
Laistrygonian giants like the ones who’d attacked me with dodgeballs, two
hellhounds and a few even stranger creatures – humanoid females with twin
serpent tails instead of legs.
‘Scythian Dracaenae,’ Annabeth whispered. ‘Dragon women.’
The monsters made a semicircle around a young guy in Greek armour who
was hacking on a straw dummy. A lump formed in my throat when I realized the
dummy was wearing an orange Camp Half-Blood T-shirt. As we watched, the
guy in armour stabbed the dummy through its belly and ripped upwards. Straw
flew everywhere. The monsters cheered and howled.
Annabeth stepped away from the window. Her face was ashen.
‘Come on,’ I told her, trying to sound braver than I felt. ‘The sooner we find
Luke the better.’
At the end of the hallway were double oak doors that looked like they must
lead somewhere important. When we were ten metres away, Tyson stopped.
‘Voices inside.’
‘You can hear that far?’ I asked.
Tyson closed his eye like he was concentrating hard. Then his voice changed,
becoming a husky approximation of Luke’s. ‘– the prophecy ourselves. The
fools won’t know which way to turn.’
Before I could react, Tyson’s voice changed again, becoming deeper and
gruffer, like the other guy we’d heard talking to Luke outside the cafeteria. ‘You
really think the old horseman is gone for good?’
Tyson laughed Luke’s laugh. ‘They can’t trust him. Not with the skeletons in
his closet. The poisoning of the tree was the final straw.’
Annabeth shivered. ‘Stop that, Tyson! How do you do that? It’s creepy.’
Tyson opened his eye and looked puzzled. ‘Just listening.’
‘Keep going,’ I said. ‘What else are they saying?’
Tyson closed his eye again.
He hissed in the gruff man’s voice, ‘Quiet!’ Then Luke’s voice, whispering,
‘Are you sure?’
‘Yes,’ Tyson said in the gruff voice. ‘Right outside.’
Too late, I realized what was happening.
I just had time to say, ‘Run!’ when the doors of the stateroom burst open and
there was Luke, flanked by two hairy giants armed with javelins, their bronze
tips aimed right at our chests.
‘Well,’ Luke said with a crooked smile. ‘If it isn’t my two favourite cousins.
Come right in.’
The stateroom was beautiful, and it was horrible.
The beautiful part: huge windows curved along the back wall, looking out
over the stern of the ship. Green sea and blue sky stretched all the way to the
horizon. A Persian rug covered the floor. Two plush sofas occupied the middle of
the room, with a canopied bed in one corner and a mahogany dining table in the
other. The table was loaded with food: pizza boxes, bottles of soda and a stack of
roast beef sandwiches on a silver platter.
The horrible part: on a velvet dais at the back of the room lay a three-metrelong golden casket. A sarcophagus, engraved with Ancient Greek scenes of cities
in flames and heroes dying grisly deaths. Despite the sunlight streaming through
the windows, the casket made the whole room feel cold.
‘Well,’ Luke said, spreading his arms proudly. ‘A little nicer than Cabin
Eleven, huh?’
He’d changed since last summer. Instead of Bermuda shorts and a T-shirt, he
wore a button-down shirt, khaki trousers and leather loafers. His sandy hair,
which used to be so unruly, was now clipped short. He looked like an evil male
model, showing off what the fashionable college-age villain was wearing to
Harvard this year.
He still had the scar under his eye – a jagged white line from his battle with a
dragon. And propped against the sofa was his magical sword, Backbiter, glinting
strangely with its half steel, half Celestial bronze blade that could kill both
mortals and monsters.
‘Sit,’ he told us. He waved his hand and three dining chairs scooted
themselves into the centre of the room.
None of us sat.
Luke’s large friends were still pointing their javelins at us. They looked like
twins, but they weren’t human. They stood about two and a half metres tall, for
one thing, and wore only blue jeans, probably because their enormous chests
were already shag-carpeted with thick brown fur. They had claws for fingernails,
feet like paws. Their noses were snoutlike, and their teeth were all pointed
canines.
‘Where are my manners?’ Luke said smoothly. ‘These are my assistants,
Agrius and Oreius. Perhaps you’ve heard of them.’
I said nothing. Despite the javelins pointed at me, it wasn’t the bear twins who
scared me.
I’d imagined meeting Luke again many times since he’d tried to kill me last
summer. I’d pictured myself boldly standing up to him, challenging him to a
duel. But now that we were face to face, I could barely stop my hands from
shaking.
‘You don’t know Agrius and Oreius’s story?’ Luke asked. ‘Their mother …
well, it’s sad, really. Aphrodite ordered the young woman to fall in love. She
refused and ran to Artemis for help. Artemis let her become one of her maiden
huntresses, but Aphrodite got her revenge. She bewitched the young woman into
falling in love with a bear. When Artemis found out, she abandoned the girl in
disgust. Typical of the gods, wouldn’t you say? They fight with one another and
the poor humans get caught in the middle. The girl’s twin sons here, Agrius and
Oreius, have no love for Olympus. They like half-bloods well enough, though…’
‘For lunch,’ Agrius growled. His gruff voice was the one I’d heard talking
with Luke earlier.
‘Hehe! Hehe!’ His brother Oreius laughed, licking his fur-lined lips. He kept
laughing like he was having an asthmatic fit until Luke and Agrius both stared at
him.
‘Shut up, you idiot!’ Agrius growled. ‘Go punish yourself!’
Oreius whimpered. He trudged over to the corner of the room, slumped onto a
stool, and banged his forehead against the dining table, making the silver plates
rattle.
Luke acted like this was perfectly normal behaviour. He made himself
comfortable on the sofa and propped his feet up on the coffee table. ‘Well, Percy,
we let you survive another year. I hope you appreciated it. How’s your mom?
How’s school?’
‘You poisoned Thalia’s tree.’
Luke sighed. ‘Right to the point, eh? Okay, sure I poisoned the tree. So what?’
‘How could you?’ Annabeth sounded so angry I thought she’d explode.
‘Thalia saved your life! Our lives! How could you dishonour her –’
‘I didn’t dishonour her!’ Luke snapped. ‘The gods dishonoured her, Annabeth!
If Thalia were alive, she’d be on my side.’
‘Liar!’
‘If you knew what was coming, you’d understand –’
‘I understand you want to destroy the camp!’she yelled. ‘You’re a monster!’
Luke shook his head. ‘The gods have blinded you. Can’t you imagine a world
without them, Annabeth? What good is that ancient history you study? Three
thousand years of baggage! The West is rotten to the core. It has to be destroyed.
Join me! We can start the world anew. We could use your intelligence,
Annabeth.’
‘Because you have none of your own!’
His eyes narrowed. ‘I know you, Annabeth. You deserve better than tagging
along on some hopeless quest to save the camp. Half-Blood Hill will be overrun
by monsters within the month. The heroes who survive will have no choice but
to join us or be hunted to extinction. You really want to be on a losing team …
with company like this?’ Luke pointed at Tyson.
‘Hey!’ I said.
‘Travelling with a Cyclops,’ Luke chided. ‘Talk about dishonouring Thalia’s
memory! I’m surprised at you, Annabeth. You of all people –’
‘Stop it!’she shouted.
I didn’t know what Luke was talking about, but Annabeth buried her head in
her hands like she was about to cry.
‘Leave her alone,’ I said. ‘And leave Tyson out of this.’
Luke laughed. ‘Oh, yeah, I heard. Your father claimed him.’
I must have looked surprised, because Luke smiled. ‘Yes, Percy, I know all
about that. And about your plan to find the Fleece. What were those coordinates,
again … thirty, thirty-one, seventy-five, twelve? You see, I still have friends at
camp who keep me posted.’
‘Spies, you mean.’
He shrugged. ‘How many insults from your father can you stand, Percy? You
think he’s grateful to you? You think Poseidon cares for you any more than he
cares for this monster?’
Tyson clenched his fists and made a rumbling sound down in his throat.
Luke just chuckled. ‘The gods are so using you, Percy. Do you have any idea
what’s in store for you if you reach your sixteenth birthday? Has Chiron even
told you the prophecy?’
I wanted to get in Luke’s face and tell him off, but as usual, he knew just how
to throw me off balance.
Sixteenth birthday?
I mean, I knew Chiron had received a prophecy from the Oracle many years
ago. I knew part of it was about me. But, if I reached my sixteenth birthday? I
didn’t like the sound of that.
‘I know what I need to know,’ I managed. ‘Like, who my enemies are.’
‘Then you’re a fool.’
Tyson smashed the nearest dining chair to splinters. ‘Percy is not a fool!’
Before I could stop him, he charged Luke. His fists came down towards
Luke’s head – a double overhead blow that would’ve knocked a hole in titanium
– but the bear twins intercepted. They each caught one of Tyson’s arms and
stopped him cold. They pushed him back and Tyson stumbled. He fell to the
carpet so hard the deck shook.
‘Too bad, Cyclops,’ Luke said. ‘Looks like my grizzly friends together are
more than a match for your strength. Maybe I should let them –’
‘Luke,’ I cut in. ‘Listen to me. Your father sent us.’
His face turned the colour of pepperoni. ‘Don’t – even – mention him.’
‘He told us to take this boat. I thought it was just for a ride, but he sent us here
to find you. He told me he won’t give up on you, no matter how angry you are.’
‘Angry?’ Luke roared. ‘Give up on me? He abandoned me, Percy! I want
Olympus destroyed! Every throne crushed to rubble! You tell Hermes it’s going
to happen, too. Each time a half-blood joins us, the Olympians grow weaker and
we grow stronger. He grows stronger.’ Luke pointed to the gold sarcophagus.
The box creeped me out, but I was determined not to show it. ‘So?’ I
demanded. ‘What’s so special…’
Then it hit me, what might be inside the sarcophagus. The temperature in the
room seemed to drop twenty degrees. ‘Whoa, you don’t mean –’
‘He is re-forming,’ Luke said. ‘Little by little, we’re calling his life force out
of the pit. With every recruit who pledges our cause, another small piece appears
–’
‘That’s disgusting!’ Annabeth said.
Luke sneered at her. ‘Your mother was born from Zeus’s split skull, Annabeth.
I wouldn’t talk. Soon there will be enough of the titan lord so that we can make
him whole again. We will piece together a new body for him, a work worthy of
the forges of Hephaestus.’
‘You’re insane,’ Annabeth said.
‘Join us and you’ll be rewarded. We have powerful friends, sponsors rich
enough to buy this cruise ship and much more. Percy, your mother will never
have to work again. You can buy her a mansion. You can have power, fame –
whatever you want. Annabeth, you can realize your dream of being an architect.
You can build a monument to last a thousand years. A temple to the lords of the
next age!’
‘Go to Tartarus,’she said.
Luke sighed. ‘A shame.’
He picked up something that looked like a TV remote and pressed a red
button. Within seconds the door of the stateroom opened and two uniformed
crew members came in, armed with nightsticks. They had the same glassy-eyed
look as the other mortals I’d seen, but I had a feeling this wouldn’t make them
any less dangerous in a fight.
‘Ah, good, security,’ Luke said. ‘I’m afraid we have some stowaways.’
‘Yes, sir,’ they said dreamily.
Luke turned to Oreius. ‘It’s time to feed the Aethiopian drakon. Take these
fools below and show them how it’s done.’
Oreius grinned stupidly. ‘Hehe! Hehe!’
‘Let me go, too,’ Agrius grumbled. ‘My brother is worthless. That Cyclops –’
‘Is no threat,’ Luke said. He glanced back at the golden casket, as if something
were troubling him. ‘Agrius, stay here. We have important matters to discuss.’
‘But –’
‘Oreius, don’t fail me. Stay in the hold to make sure the drakon is properly
fed.’
Oreius prodded us with his javelin and herded us out of the stateroom,
followed by the two human security guards.
As I walked down the corridor with Orieus’s javelin poking me in the back, I
thought about what Luke had said – that the bear twins together were a match
for Tyson’s strength. But maybe separately…
We exited the corridor amidships and walked across an open deck lined with
lifeboats. I knew the ship well enough to realize this would be our last look at
sunlight. Once we got to the other side, we’d take the elevator down into the
hold, and that would be it.
I looked at Tyson and said, ‘Now.’
Thank the gods, he understood. He turned and smacked Oreius ten metres
backwards into the swimming pool, right into the middle of the zombie tourist
family.
‘Ah!’ the kids yelled in unison. ‘We are not having a blast in the pool!’
One of the security guards drew his nightstick, but Annabeth knocked the
wind out of him with a well-placed kick. The other guard ran for the nearest
alarm box.
‘Stop him!’ Annabeth yelled, but it was too late.
Just before I banged him on the head with a deckchair, he hit the alarm.
Red lights flashed. Sirens wailed.
‘Lifeboat!’ I yelled.
We ran for the nearest one.
By the time we got the cover off, monsters and more security men were
swarming the deck, pushing aside tourists and waiters with trays of tropical
drinks. A guy in Greek armour drew his sword and charged, but slipped in a
puddle of piña colada. Laistrygonian archers assembled on the deck above us,
notching arrows in their enormous bows.
‘How do you launch this thing?’screamed Annabeth.
A hellhound leaped at me, but Tyson slammed it aside with a fire extinguisher.
‘Get in!’ I yelled. I uncapped Riptide and slashed the first volley of arrows out
of the air. Any second we would be overwhelmed.
The lifeboat was hanging over the side of the ship, high above the water.
Annabeth and Tyson were having no luck with the release pulley.
I jumped in beside them.
‘Hold on!’ I yelled, and I cut the ropes.
A shower of arrows whistled over our heads as we free-fell towards the ocean.