CHAPTER 23: We Say Goodbye, Sort of
Camp went late that summer. It lasted two more weeks, right up to the start of a
new school year, and I have to admit they were the best two weeks of my life.
Of course, Annabeth would kill me if I said anything different, but there was a
lot of other great stuff going on, too. Grover had taken over the satyr seekers and
was sending them out across the world to find unclaimed half-bloods. So far, the
gods had kept their promise. New demigods were popping up all over the place –
not just in America, but in a lot of other countries as well.
‘We can hardly keep up,’ Grover admitted one afternoon as we were taking a
break at the canoe lake. ‘We’re going to need a bigger travel budget, and I could
use a hundred more satyrs.’
‘Yeah, but the satyrs you have are working super hard,’ I said. ‘I think they’re
scared of you.’
Grover blushed. ‘That’s silly. I’m not scary.’
‘You’re a Lord of the Wild, dude. The chosen one of Pan. A member of the
Council of –’
‘Stop it!’ Grover protested. ‘You’re as bad as Juniper. I think she wants me to
run for president next.’
He chewed on a tin can as we stared across the pond at the line of new cabins
under construction. The U-shape would soon be a complete rectangle, and the
demigods had really taken to the new task with gusto.
Nico had some undead builders working on the Hades cabin. Even though he
was still the only kid in it, it was going to look pretty cool – solid obsidian walls
with a skull over the door and torches that burned with green fire twenty-four
hours a day. Next to that were the cabins of Iris, Nemesis, Hecate and several
others I didn’t recognize. They kept adding new ones to the blueprints every day.
It was going so well Annabeth and Chiron were talking about adding an entirely
new wing of cabins just so they could have enough room.
The Hermes cabin was a lot less crowded now, because most of the unclaimed
kids had received signs from their godly parents. It happened almost every night,
and every night more demigods straggled over the property line with the satyr
guides, usually with some nasty monsters pursuing them, but almost all of them
made it through.
‘It’s going to be a lot different next summer,’ I said. ‘Chiron’s expecting we’ll
have twice as many campers.’
‘Yeah,’ Grover agreed, ‘but it’ll be the same old place.’
He sighed contentedly.
I watched as Tyson led a group of Cyclops builders. They were hoisting huge
stones in place for the Hecate cabin, and I knew it was a delicate job. Each stone
was engraved with magical writing, and if they dropped one, it would either
explode or turn everyone within half a mile into a tree. I figured nobody but
Grover would like that.
‘I’ll be travelling a lot,’ Grover warned, ‘between protecting nature and
finding half-bloods. I may not see you as much.’
‘Won’t change anything,’ I said. ‘You’re still my best friend.’
He grinned. ‘Except for Annabeth.’
‘That’s different.’
‘Yeah,’ he agreed. ‘It sure is.’
In the late afternoon, I was taking one last walk along the beach when a familiar
voice said, ‘Good day for fishing.’
My dad, Poseidon, was standing knee-deep in the surf, wearing his typical
Bermuda shorts, beat-up cap and a real subtle pink-and-green tropical shirt. He
had a deep-sea fishing rod in his hands, and when he cast it, the line went way
out – like halfway across Long Island Sound.
‘Hey, Dad,’ I said. ‘What brings you here?’
He winked. ‘Never really got to talk in private on Olympus. I wanted to thank
you.’
‘Thank me? You came to the rescue.’
‘Yes, and I got my palace destroyed in the process, but you know – palaces
can be rebuilt. I’ve had so many thank-you cards from the other gods. Even Ares
wrote one, though I think Hera forced him to. It’s rather gratifying. So thank
you. I suppose even the gods can learn new tricks.’
The Sound began to boil. At the end of my dad’s line, a huge green sea serpent
erupted from the water. It thrashed and fought, but Poseidon just sighed. Holding
his fishing pole with one hand, he whipped out his knife and cut the line. The
monster sank below the surface.
‘Not eating size,’ he complained. ‘I have to release the little ones or the game
wardens will be all over me.’
‘Little ones?’
He grinned. ‘You’re doing well with those new cabins, by the way. I suppose
this means I can claim all those other sons and daughters of mine and send you
some siblings next summer.’
‘Ha-ha.’
Poseidon reeled in his empty line.
I shifted my feet. ‘Um, you were kidding, right?’
Poseidon gave me one of his inside-joke winks, and I still didn’t know
whether he was serious or not. ‘I’ll see you soon, Percy. And remember – know
which fish are big enough to land, eh?’
With that he dissolved in the sea breeze, leaving a fishing pole lying in the
sand.
That evening was the last night of camp – the bead ceremony. The Hephaestus
cabin had designed the bead this year. It showed the Empire State Building, and
etched in tiny Greek letters, spiralling around the image, were the names of all
the heroes who had died defending Olympus. There were too many names, but I
was proud to wear the bead. I put it on my camp necklace – four beads now. I
felt like an old-timer. I thought about the first campfire I’d ever attended, back
when I was twelve, and how I’d felt so at home. That at least hadn’t changed.
‘Never forget this summer!’ Chiron told us. He had healed remarkably well,
but he still trotted in front of the fire with a slight limp. ‘We have discovered
bravery and friendship and courage this summer. We have upheld the honour of
the camp.’
He smiled at me, and everybody cheered. As I looked at the fire, I saw a little
girl in a brown dress tending the flames. She winked at me with red glowing
eyes. No one else seemed to notice her, but I realized maybe she preferred it that
way.
‘And now,’ Chiron said, ‘early to bed! Remember you must vacate your
cabins by noon tomorrow unless you’ve made arrangements to stay the year with
us. The cleaning harpies will eat any stragglers, and I’d hate to end the summer
on a sour note!’
The next morning, Annabeth and I stood at the top of Half-Blood Hill. We
watched the buses and vans pull away, taking most of the campers back to the
real world. A few old-timers would be staying behind, and a few of the
newcomers, but I was heading back to Goode High School for my sophomore
year – the first time in my life I’d ever done two years at the same school.
‘Goodbye,’ Rachel said to us as she shouldered her bag. She looked pretty
nervous, but she was keeping a promise to her father and attending Clarion
Academy in New Hampshire. It would be next summer before we got our Oracle
back.
‘You’ll do great.’ Annabeth hugged her. Funny, she seemed to get along fine
with Rachel these days.
Rachel bit her lip. ‘I hope you’re right. I’m a little worried. What if somebody
asks what’s on the next maths test and I start spouting a prosphecy in the middle
of geometry class? The Pythagorean theorem shall be problem two … Gods, that
would be embarrassing.’
Annabeth laughed, and to my relief it made Rachel smile.
‘Well,’ she said, ‘you two be good to each other.’ Go figure, but she looked at
me like I was some kind of troublemaker. Before I could protest, Rachel wished
us well and ran down the hill to catch her lift.
Annabeth, thank goodness, would be staying in New York. She’d got
permission from her parents to attend a boarding school in the city so she could
be close to Olympus and oversee the rebuilding efforts.
‘And close to me?’ I asked.
‘Well, someone’s got a big sense of his own importance.’ But she laced her
fingers through mine. I remembered what she’d told me in New York, about
building something permanent, and I thought – just maybe – we were off to a
good start.
The guard dragon Peleus curled contentedly around the pine tree underneath
the Golden Fleece and began to snore, blowing steam with every breath.
‘You’ve been thinking about Rachel’s prophecy?’ I asked Annabeth.
She frowned. ‘How did you know?’
‘Because I know you.’
She bumped me with her shoulder. ‘Okay, so I have. Seven half-bloods shall
answer the call. I wonder who they’ll be. We’re going to have so many new
faces next summer.’
‘Yep,’ I agreed. ‘And all that stuff about the world falling in storm or fire.’
She pursed her lips. ‘And foes at the Doors of Death. I don’t know, Percy, but
I don’t like it. I thought … well, maybe we’d get some peace for a change.’
‘Wouldn’t be Camp Half-Blood if it was peaceful,’ I said.
‘I guess you’re right … or maybe the prophecy won’t happen for years.’
‘Could be a problem for another generation of demigods,’ I agreed. ‘Then we
can kick back and enjoy.’
She nodded, though she still seemed uneasy. I didn’t blame her, but it was
hard to feel too upset on a nice day, with her next to me, knowing that I wasn’t
really saying goodbye. We had lots of time.
‘Race you to the road?’ I said.
‘You are so going to lose.’ She took off down Half-Blood Hill and I sprinted
after her.
For once, I didn’t look back.