CHAPTER 8: I Make A Dangerous Promise
Blackjack gave me a ride down the beach, and I have to admit it was cool. Being
on a flying horse, skimming over the waves at a hundred miles an hour with the
wind in my hair and the sea spray in my face – hey, it beats waterskiing any day.
Here. Blackjack slowed and turned in a circle. Straight down.
‘Thanks.’ I tumbled off his back and plunged into the icy sea.
I’d got more comfortable doing stunts like that the past couple of years. I
could pretty much move however I wanted to underwater, just by willing the
ocean currents to change around me and propel me along. I could breathe
underwater, no problem, and my clothes never got wet unless I wanted them to.
I shot down into the darkness.
Eight, ten, twelve metres. The pressure wasn’t uncomfortable. I’d never tried
to push it – to see if there was a limit to how deep I could dive. I knew most
regular humans couldn’t go past sixty-five metres without crumpling like a tin
can. I should’ve been blind, too, this deep in the water at night, but I could see
the heat from living forms, and the cold of the currents. It’s hard to describe. It
wasn’t like regular seeing, but I could tell where everything was.
As I got closer to the bottom, I saw three hippocampi – fish-tailed horses –
swimming in a circle round an overturned boat. The hippocampi were beautiful
to watch. Their fish tails shimmered in rainbow colours, glowing
phosphorescent. Their manes were white, and they were galloping through the
water the way nervous horses do in a thunderstorm. Something was upsetting
them.
I got closer and saw the problem. A dark shape – some kind of animal – was
wedged halfway under the boat and tangled in a fishing net, one of those big nets
they use on trawlers to catch everything at once. I hated those things. It was bad
enough they drowned porpoises and dolphins, but they also occasionally caught
mythological animals. When the nets got tangled, some lazy fishermen would
just cut them loose and let the trapped animals die.
Apparently this poor creature had been mucking around on the bottom of
Long Island Sound and had somehow got itself tangled in the net of this sunken
fishing boat. It had tried to get out and managed to get even more hopelessly
stuck, shifting the boat in the process. Now the wreckage of the hull, which was
resting against a big rock, was teetering and threatening to collapse on top of the
tangled animal.
The hippocampi were swimming around frantically, wanting to help but not
sure how. One was trying to chew the net, but hippocampi teeth just aren’t meant
for cutting rope. Hippocampi are really strong, but they don’t have hands, and
they’re not (shhh) all that smart.
Free it, lord! A hippocampus said when it saw me. The others joined in,
asking the same thing.
I swam in for a closer look at the tangled creature. At first I thought it was a
young hippocampus. I’d rescued several of them before. But then I heard a
strange sound, something that did not belong underwater:
‘Mooooooo!’
I got next to the thing and saw that it was a cow. I mean… I’d heard of sea
cows, like manatees and stuff, but this really was a cow with the back end of a
serpent. The front half was a calf – a baby, with black fur and big, sad brown
eyes and a white muzzle – and its back half was a black-and-brown snaky tail
with fins running down the top and bottom, like an enormous eel.
‘Whoa, little one,’ I said. ‘Where did you come from?’
The creature looked at me sadly. ‘Moooo!’
But I couldn’t understand its thoughts. I only speak horse.
We don’t know what it is, lord, one of the hippocampus said. Many strange
things are stirring.
‘Yeah,’ I murmured. ‘So I’ve heard.’
I uncapped Riptide, and the sword grew to full-length in my hands, its bronze
blade gleaming in the dark.
The cow serpent freaked out and started struggling against the net, its eyes full
of terror. ‘Whoa!’ I said. ‘I’m not going to hurt you! Just let me cut the net.’
But the cow serpent thrashed around and got even more tangled. The boat
started to tilt, stirring up the muck on the sea bottom and threatening to topple
onto the cow serpent. The hippocampi whinnied in a panic and thrashed in the
water, which didn’t help.
‘Okay, okay!’ I said. I put away the sword and started speaking as calmly as I
could so the hippocampi and the cow serpent would stop panicking. I didn’t
know if it was possible to get stampeded underwater, but I didn’t really want to
find out. ‘It’s cool. No sword. See? No sword. Calm thoughts. Sea grass. Mama
cows. Vegetarianism.’
I doubted the cow serpent understood what I was saying, but it responded to
the tone of my voice. The hippocampi were still skittish, but they stopped
swirling around me quite so fast.
Free it, lord! they pleaded.
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘I got that part. I’m thinking.’
But how could I free the cow serpent when she (I decided it was probably a
‘she’) panicked at the sight of a blade? It was like she’d seen swords before and
knew how dangerous they were.
‘All right,’ I told the hippocampi. ‘I need all of you to push exactly the way I
tell you.’
First we started with the boat. It wasn’t easy but, with the strength of three
horsepower, we managed to shift the wreckage so it was no longer threatening to
collapse on the baby cow serpent. Then I went to work on the net, untangling it
section by section, getting lead weights and fishing hooks straightened out,
yanking out knots round the cow serpent’s hooves. It took forever – I mean, it
was worse than the time I’d had to untangle all my video game controller wires.
The whole time, I kept talking to the cow fish, telling her everything was okay
while she mooed and moaned.
‘It’s okay, Bessie,’ I said. Don’t ask me why I started calling her that. It just
seemed like a good cow name. ‘Good cow. Nice cow.’
Finally, the net came off and the cow serpent zipped through the water and did
a happy somersault.
The hippocampi whinnied with joy. Thank you, lord!
‘Moooo!’ The cow serpent nuzzled me and gave me the big brown eyes.
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘That’s okay. Nice cow. Well… stay out of trouble.’
Which reminded me, I’d been underwater how long? An hour, at least. I had
to get back to my cabin before Argus or the harpies discovered I was breaking
curfew.
I shot to the surface and broke through. Immediately, Blackjack zoomed down
and let me catch hold of his neck. He lifted me into the air and took me back
towards the shore.
Success, boss?
‘Yeah. We rescued a baby… something or other. Took forever. Almost got
stampeded.’
Good deeds are always dangerous, boss. You saved my sorry mane, didn’t
you?
I couldn’t help thinking about Annabeth in my dream, crumpled and lifeless in
Luke’s arms. Here I was rescuing baby monsters, but I couldn’t save my friend.
As Blackjack flew back towards my cabin, I happened to glance at the dining
pavilion. I saw a figure – a boy hunkered down behind a Greek column, like he
was hiding from someone.
It was Nico, but it wasn’t even dawn yet. Nowhere near time for breakfast.
What was he doing up there?
I hesitated. The last thing I wanted was more time for Nico to tell me about
his Mythomagic game. But something was wrong. I could tell by the way he was
crouching.
‘Blackjack,’ I said, ‘set me down over there, will you? Behind that column.’
I almost blew it.
I was coming up the steps behind Nico. He didn’t see me at all. He was behind
a column, peeking round the corner, all his attention focused on the dining area. I
was two metres away from him, and I was about to say What are you doing,
really loud, when it occurred to me that he was pulling a Grover: he was spying
on the Hunters.
There were voices – two girls talking at one of the dining tables. At this
ungodly hour of the morning? Well, unless you’re the goddess of dawn, I guess.
I took Annabeth’s cap out of my pocket and put it on.
I didn’t feel any different, but when I raised my arms I couldn’t see them. I
was invisible.
I crept up to Nico and sneaked round him. I couldn’t see the girls very well in
the dark, but I knew their voices: Zoë and Bianca. It sounded like they were
arguing.
‘It cannot be cured,’ Zoë was saying. ‘Not quickly, at any rate.’
‘But how did it happen?’ Bianca asked.
‘A foolish prank,’ Zoë growled. ‘Those Stoll boys from the Hermes cabin.
Centaur blood is like acid. Everyone knows that. They sprayed the inside of that
Artemis Hunting Tour T-shirt with it.’
‘That’s terrible!’
‘She will live,’ Zoë said. ‘But she’ll be bedridden for weeks with horrible
hives. There is no way she can go. It’s up to me… and thee.’
‘But the prophecy,’ Bianca said. ‘If Phoebe can’t go, we only have four. We’ll
have to pick another.’
‘There is no time,’ Zoë said. ‘We must leave at first light. That’s immediately.
Besides, the prophecy said we would lose one.’
‘In the land without rain,’ Bianca said, ‘but that can’t be here.’
‘It might be,’ Zoë said, though she didn’t sound convinced. ‘The camp has
magic borders. Nothing, not even weather, is allowed in without permission. It
could be a land without rain.’
‘But –’
‘Bianca, hear me.’ Zoë’s voice was strained. ‘I… I can’t explain, but I have a
sense that we should not pick someone else. It would be too dangerous. They
would meet an end worse than Phoebe’s. I don’t want Chiron choosing a camper
as our fifth companion. And… I don’t want to risk another Hunter.’
Bianca was silent. ‘You should tell Thalia the rest of your dream.’
‘No. It would not help.’
‘But if your suspicions are correct, about the General –’
‘I have thy word not to talk about that,’ Zoë said. She sounded really
anguished. ‘We will find out soon enough. Now come. Dawn is breaking.’
Nico scooted out of their way. He was faster than me.
As the girls sprinted down the steps, Zoë almost ran into me. She froze, her
eyes narrowing. Her hand crept towards her bow, but then Bianca said, ‘The
lights of the Big House are on. Hurry!’
And Zoë followed her out of the pavilion.
I could tell what Nico was thinking. He took a deep breath and was about to run
after his sister when I took off the invisibility cap and said, ‘Wait.’
He almost slipped on the icy steps as he spun round to find me. ‘Where did
you come from?’
‘I’ve been here the whole time. Invisible.’
He mouthed the word invisible. ‘Wow. Cool.’
‘How did you know Zoë and your sister were here?’
He blushed. ‘I heard them walk by the Hermes cabin. I don’t… I don’t sleep
too well at camp. So I heard footsteps, and them whispering. And so I kind of
followed.’
‘And now you’re thinking about following them on the quest,’ I guessed.
‘How did you know that?’
‘Because if it was my sister, I’d probably be thinking the same thing. But you
can’t.’
He looked defiant. ‘Because I’m too young?’
‘Because they won’t let you. They’ll catch you and send you back here.
And… yeah, because you’re too young. You remember the manticore? There
will be lots more like that. More dangerous. Some of the heroes will die.’
His shoulders sagged. He shifted from foot to foot. ‘Maybe you’re right. But,
but you can go for me.’
‘Say what?’
‘You can turn invisible. You can go!’
‘The Hunters don’t like boys,’ I reminded him. ‘If they find out –’
‘Don’t let them find out. Follow them invisibly. Keep an eye on my sister!
You have to. Please?’
‘Nico –’
‘You’re planning to go anyway, aren’t you?’
I wanted to say no. But he looked me in the eyes, and I somehow couldn’t lie
to him.
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘I have to find Annabeth. I have to help, even if they don’t want
me to.’
‘I won’t tell on you,’ he said. ‘But you have to promise to keep my sister safe.’
‘I… that’s a big thing to promise, Nico, on a trip like this. Besides, she’s got
Zoë, Grover and Thalia –’
‘Promise,’ he insisted.
‘I’ll do my best. I promise that.’
‘Get going, then!’ he said. ‘Good luck!’
It was crazy. I wasn’t packed. I had nothing but the cap and the sword and the
clothes I was wearing. I was supposed to be going home to Manhattan this
morning. ‘Tell Chiron –’
‘I’ll make something up.’ Nico smiled crookedly. ‘I’m good at that. Go on!’
I ran, putting on Annabeth’s cap. As the sun came up, I turned invisible. I hit
the top of Half-Blood Hill in time to see the camp’s van disappearing down the
farm road, probably Argus taking the quest group into the city. After that they
would be on their own.
I felt a twinge of guilt, and stupidity, too. How was I supposed to keep up with
them. Run?
Then I heard the beating of huge wings. Blackjack landed next to me. He
began casually nuzzling a few tufts of grass that stuck through the ice.
If I was guessing, boss, I’d say you need a getaway horse. You interested?
A lump of gratitude stuck in my throat, but I managed to say, ‘Yeah. Let’s fly.’