CHAPTER 17: The Lost God Speaks
We ran until we were exhausted. Rachel steered us away from traps, but we had
no destination in mind – only away from that dark mountain and the roar of
Kronos.
We stopped in a tunnel of wet white rock, like part of a natural cave. I couldn’t
hear anything behind us, but I didn’t feel any safer. I could still remember those
unnatural golden eyes staring out of Luke’s face, and the feeling that my limbs
were slowly turning to stone.
‘I can’t go any further,’ Rachel gasped, hugging her chest.
Annabeth had been crying the entire time we’d been running. Now she
collapsed and put her head between her knees. Her sobs echoed in the tunnel.
Nico and I sat next to each other. He dropped his sword next to mine and took a
shaky breath.
‘That sucked,’ he said, which I thought summed things up pretty well.
‘You saved our lives,’ I said.
Nico wiped the dust off his face. ‘Blame the girls for dragging me along.
That’s the only thing they could agree on. We needed to help you or you’d mess
things up.’
‘Nice that they trust me so much.’ I shone my flashlight across the cavern.
Water dripped from the stalactites like a slow-motion rain. ‘Nico … you, uh,
kind of gave yourself away.’
‘What do you mean?’
‘That wall of black stone? That was pretty impressive. If Kronos didn’t know
who you were before, he does now – a child of the Underworld.’
Nico frowned. ‘Big deal.’
I let it drop. I figured he was just trying to hide how scared he was, and I
couldn’t blame him.
Annabeth lifted her head. Her eyes were red from crying. ‘What … what was
wrong with Luke? What did they do to him?’
I told her what I’d seen in the coffin, the way the last piece of Kronos’s spirit
had entered Luke’s body when Ethan Nakamura pledged his service.
‘No,’ Annabeth said. ‘That can’t be true. He couldn’t –’
‘He gave himself over to Kronos,’ I said. ‘I’m sorry, Annabeth. But Luke is
gone.’
‘No!’she insisted. ‘You saw when Rachel hit him.’
I nodded, looking at Rachel with respect. ‘You hit the Lord of the Titans in the
eye with a blue plastic hairbrush.’
Rachel looked embarrassed. ‘It was the only thing I had.’
‘But you saw,’ Annabeth insisted. ‘When it hit him, just for a second, he was
dazed. He came back to his senses.’
‘So maybe Kronos wasn’t completely settled in the body, or whatever,’ I said.
‘It doesn’t mean Luke was in control.’
‘You want him to be evil, is that it?’ Annabeth yelled. ‘You didn’t know him
before, Percy. I did!’
‘What is it with you?’ I snapped. ‘Why do you keep defending him?’
‘Whoa, you two,’ Rachel said. ‘Knock it off.’
Annabeth turned on her. ‘Stay out of it, mortal girl! If it wasn’t for you …’
Whatever she was going to say, her voice broke. She put her head down again
and sobbed miserably. I wanted to comfort her, but I didn’t know how. I still felt
stunned, like Kronos’s time-slowing effect had affected my brain. I just couldn’t
comprehend what I’d seen. Kronos was alive. He was armed. And the end of the
world was probably close at hand.
‘We have to keep moving,’ Nico said. ‘He’ll send monsters after us.’
Nobody was in any shape to run, but Nico was right. I hauled myself up and
helped Rachel to her feet.
‘You were great back there,’ I told her.
She managed a weak smile. ‘Yeah, well. I didn’t want you to die.’ She
blushed. ‘I mean … just because, you know. You owe me too many favours.
How am I going to collect if you die?’
I knelt next to Annabeth. ‘Hey, I’m sorry. We need to move.’
‘I know,’she said. ‘I’m … I’m all right.’
She was clearly not all right. But she got to her feet, and we started straggling
through the Labyrinth again.
‘Back to New York,’ I said. ‘Rachel, can you –’
I froze. A few metres in front of us, my flashlight beam fixed on a trampled
clump of red fabric lying on the ground. It was a Rasta cap: the one Grover
always wore.
∗ ∗ ∗
My hands shook as I picked up the cap. It looked like it had been stepped on by
a huge muddy boot. After all that I’d gone through today, I couldn’t stand the
thought that something might’ve happened to Grover, too.
Then I noticed something else. The cave floor was mushy and wet from the
water dripping off the stalactites. There were large footprints like Tyson’s, and
smaller ones – goat hooves – leading off to the left.
‘We have to follow them,’ I said. ‘They went that way. It must have been
recently.’
‘What about Camp Half-Blood?’ Nico said. ‘There’s no time.’
‘We have to find them,’ Annabeth insisted. ‘They’re our friends.’
She picked up Grover’s smashed cap and forged ahead.
I followed, bracing myself for the worst. The tunnel was treacherous. It sloped
at weird angles and was slimy with moisture. Half the time we were slipping and
sliding rather than walking.
Finally we got to the bottom of a slope and found ourselves in a large cave
with huge stalagmite columns. Through the centre of the room ran an
underground river, and Tyson was sitting by the bank, cradling Grover in his lap.
Grover’s eyes were closed. He wasn’t moving.
‘Tyson!’ I yelled.
‘Percy! Come quick!’
We ran over to him. Grover wasn’t dead, thank the gods, but his whole body
trembled like he was freezing to death.
‘What happened?’ I asked.
‘So many things,’ Tyson murmured. ‘Large snake. Large dogs. Men with
swords. But then … we got close to here. Grover was excited. He ran. Then we
reached this room, and he fell. Like this.’
‘Did he say anything?’ I asked.
‘He said, ‘We’re close.’ Then he hit his head on rocks.’
I knelt next to him. The only other time I’d seen Grover pass out was in New
Mexico, when he’d felt the presence of Pan.
I shone my flashlight around the cavern. The rocks glittered. At the far end
was the entrance to another cave, flanked by gigantic columns of crystal that
looked like diamonds. And beyond that entrance …
‘Grover,’ I said. ‘Wake up.’
‘Uhhhhhhhh.’
Annabeth knelt next to him and splashed icy cold river water in his face.
‘Splurg!’ His eyelids fluttered. ‘Percy? Annabeth? Where …’
‘It’s okay,’ I said. ‘You passed out. The presence was too much for you.’
‘I – I remember. Pan.’
‘Yeah,’ I said. ‘Something powerful is just beyond that doorway.’
I made quick introductions, since Tyson and Grover had never met Rachel.
Tyson told Rachel she was pretty, which made Annabeth’s nostrils flare like she
was going to blow fire.
‘Anyway,’ I said. ‘Come on, Grover. Lean on me.’
Annabeth and I helped him up, and together we waded across the underground
river. The current was strong. The water came up to our waists. I willed myself
to stay dry, which is a handy little ability, but that didn’t help the others, and I
could still feel the cold, like wading through a snowdrift.
‘I think we’re in Carlsbad Caverns,’ Annabeth said, her teeth chattering.
‘Maybe an unexplored section.’
‘How do you know?’
‘Carlsbad is in New Mexico,’she said. ‘That would explain last winter.’
I nodded. Grover’s swooning episode had happened when we passed through
New Mexico. That’s where he’d felt closest to the power of Pan.
We got out of the water and kept walking. As the crystal pillars loomed larger,
I started to feel the power emanating from the next room. I’d been in the
presence of gods before, but this was different. My skin tingled with living
energy. My weariness fell away, as if I’d just had a good night’s sleep. I could
feel myself growing stronger, like one of those plants in a time-lapse video. And
the scent coming from the cave was nothing like the dank wet underground. It
smelled of trees and flowers and a warm summer day.
Grover whimpered with excitement. I was too stunned to talk. Even Nico
seemed speechless. We stepped into the cave, and Rachel said, ‘Oh, wow.’
The walls glittered with crystals – red, green and blue. In the strange light,
beautiful plants grew – giant orchids, star-shaped flowers, vines bursting with
orange and purple berries that crept among the crystals. The cave floor was
covered with soft green moss. Overhead, the ceiling was higher than a cathedral,
sparkling like a galaxy of stars. In the centre of the cave stood a Roman-style
bed, gilded wood shaped like a curly U, with velvet cushions. Animals lounged
around it – but they were animals that shouldn’t have been alive. There was a
dodo bird, something that looked like a cross between a wolf and a tiger, a huge
rodent like the mother of all guinea pigs and, roaming behind the bed, picking
berries with its trunk, was a woolly mammoth.
On the bed lay an old satyr. He watched us as we approached, his eyes as blue
as the sky. His curly hair was white and so was his pointed beard. Even the goat
fur on his legs was frosted with grey. His horns were enormous – glossy brown
and curved. There was no way he could’ve hidden those under a hat, the way
Grover did. Around his neck hung a set of reed pipes.
Grover fell to his knees in front of the bed. ‘Lord Pan!’
The god smiled kindly, but there was sadness in his eyes. ‘Grover, my dear,
brave satyr. I have waited a very long time for you.’
‘I … got lost,’ Grover apologized.
Pan laughed. It was a wonderful sound, like the first breeze of springtime,
filling the whole cavern with hope. The tiger-wolf sighed and rested his head on
the god’s knee. The dodo bird pecked affectionately at the god’s hooves, making
a strange sound in the back of its bill. I could swear it was humming ‘It’s a Small
World’.
Still, Pan looked tired. His whole form shimmered as if he were made of Mist.
I noticed my other friends were kneeling. They had awed looks on their faces.
I got to my knees.
‘You have a humming dodo bird,’ I said stupidly.
The god’s eyes twinkled. ‘Yes, that’s Dede. My little actress.’
Dede the dodo looked offended. She pecked at Pan’s knee and hummed
something that sounded like a funeral dirge.
‘This is the most beautiful place!’ Annabeth said. ‘It’s better than any building
ever designed.’
‘I’m glad you like it, dear,’ Pan said. ‘It is one of the last wild places. My
realm above is gone, I’m afraid. Only pockets remain. Tiny pieces of life. This
one shall stay undisturbed … for a little longer.’
‘My lord,’ Grover said, ‘please, you must come back with me! The Elders will
never believe it! They’ll be overjoyed! You can save the wild!’
Pan placed his hand on Grover’s head and ruffled his curly hair. ‘You are so
young, Grover. So good and true. I think I chose well.’
‘Chose?’ Grover said. ‘I – I don’t understand.’
Pan’s image flickered, momentarily turning to smoke. The giant guinea pig
scuttled under the bed with a terrified squeal. The woolly mammoth grunted
nervously. Dede stuck her head under her wing. Then Pan re-formed.
‘I have slept many aeons,’ the god said forlornly. ‘My dreams have been dark.
I wake fitfully, and each time my waking is shorter. Now we are near the end.’
‘What?’ Grover cried. ‘But no! You’re right here!’
‘My dear satyr,’ Pan said. ‘I tried to tell the world, two thousand years ago. I
announced it to Lysas, a satyr very much like you. He lived in Ephesos, and he
tried to spread the word.’
Annabeth’s eyes widened. ‘The old story. A sailor passing by the coast of
Ephesos heard a voice crying from the shore, “Tell them the great god Pan is
dead.”’
‘But that wasn’t true!’ Grover said.
‘Your kind never believed it,’ Pan said. ‘You sweet, stubborn satyrs refused to
accept my passing. And I love you for that, but you only delayed the inevitable.
You only prolonged my long, painful passing, my dark twilight sleep. It must
end.’
‘No!’ Grover’s voice trembled.
‘Dear Grover,’ Pan said. ‘You must accept the truth. Your companion, Nico,
he understands.’
Nico nodded slowly. ‘He’s dying. He should have died long ago. This … this
is more like a memory.’
‘But gods can’t die,’ Grover said.
‘They can fade,’ Pan said, ‘when everything they stood for is gone. When they
cease to have power, and their sacred places disappear. The wild, my dear
Grover, is so small now, so shattered, that no god can save it. My realm is gone.
That is why I need you to carry a message. You must go back to the council. You
must tell the satyrs, and the dryads, and the other spirits of nature, that the great
god Pan is dead. Tell them of my passing. Because they must stop waiting for me
to save them. I cannot. The only salvation you must make yourself. Each of you
must –’
He stopped and frowned at the dodo bird, who had started humming again.
‘Dede, what are you doing?’ Pan demanded. ‘Are you singing “Kumbaya”
again?’
Dede looked up innocently and blinked her yellow eyes.
Pan sighed. ‘Everybody’s a cynic. But as I was saying, my dear Grover, each
of you must take up my calling.’
‘But … no!’ Grover whimpered.
‘Be strong,’ Pan said. ‘You have found me. And now you must release me.
You must carry on my spirit. It can no longer be carried by a god. It must be
taken up by all of you.’
Pan looked straight at me with his clear blue eyes, and I realized he wasn’t
just talking about the satyrs. He meant half-bloods, too, and humans. Everyone.
‘Percy Jackson,’ the god said. ‘I know what you have seen today. I know your
doubts. But I give you this news: when the time comes, you will not be ruled by
fear.’
He turned to Annabeth. ‘Daughter of Athena, your time is coming. You will
play a great role, though it may not be the role you imagined.’
Then he looked at Tyson. ‘Master Cyclops, do not despair. Heroes rarely live
up to our expectations. But you, Tyson – your name shall live among the
Cyclopes for generations. And Miss Rachel Dare …’
Rachel flinched when he said her name. She backed away like she was guilty
of something, but Pan only smiled. He raised his hand in a blessing.
‘I know you believe you cannot make amends,’ he said. ‘But you are just as
important as your father.’
‘I –’ Rachel faltered. A tear traced her cheek.
‘I know you don’t believe this now,’ Pan said. ‘But look for opportunities.
They will come.’
Finally he turned back towards Grover. ‘My dear satyr,’ Pan said kindly. ‘Will
you carry my message?’
‘I – I can’t.’
‘You can,’ Pan said. ‘You are the strongest and bravest. Your heart is true. You
have believed in me more than anyone ever has, which is why you must bring
the message, and why you must be the first to release me.’
‘I don’t want to.’
‘I know,’ the god said. ‘But my name, Pan … originally it meant rustic. Did
you know that? But over the years it has come to mean all. The spirit of the wild
must pass to all of you now. You must tell each one you meet: if you would find
Pan, take up Pan’s spirit. Remake the wild, a little at a time, each in your own
corner of the world. You cannot wait for anyone else, even a god, to do that for
you.’
Grover wiped his eyes. Then slowly he stood. ‘I’ve spent my whole life
looking for you. Now … I release you.’
Pan smiled. ‘Thank you, dear satyr. My final blessing.’
He closed his eyes, and the god dissolved. White mist divided into wisps of
energy, but this kind of energy wasn’t scary like the blue power I’d seen from
Kronos. It filled the room. A curl of smoke went straight into my mouth, and
Grover’s, and the others’. But I think a little more of it went into Grover. The
crystals dimmed. The animals gave us a sad look. Dede the dodo sighed. Then
they all turned grey and crumbled to dust. The vines withered. And we were
alone in a dark cave, with an empty bed.
I switched on my flashlight.
Grover took a deep breath.
‘Are… are you okay?’ I asked him.
He looked older and sadder. He took his cap from Annabeth, brushed off the
mud, and stuck it firmly on his curly head.
‘We should go now,’ he said, ‘and tell them. The great god Pan is dead.’