CHAPTER 6: I Become Supreme Lord of the Bathroom
Once I got over the fact that my Latin teacher was a horse, we had a nice tour,
though I was careful not to walk behind him. I’d done pooper-scooper patrol in
the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade a few times, and, I’m sorry, I did not trust
Chiron’s back end the way I trusted his front.
We passed the volleyball pit. Several of the campers nudged each other. One
pointed to the Minotaur horn I was carrying. Another said, ‘That’s him.’
Most of the campers were older than me. Their satyr friends were bigger than
Grover, all of them trotting around in orange CAMP HALF-BLOOD T-shirts,
with nothing else to cover their bare shaggy hindquarters. I wasn’t normally shy,
but the way they stared at me made me uncomfortable. I felt like they were
expecting me to do a cartwheel or something.
I looked back at the farmhouse. It was a lot bigger than I’d realized – four
storeys tall, sky blue with white trim, like an upmarket seaside resort. I was
checking out the brass eagle weather vane on top when something caught my
eye, a shadow in the uppermost window of the attic gable. Something had
moved the curtain, just for a second, and I got the distinct impression I was
being watched.
‘What’s up there?’ I asked Chiron.
He looked where I was pointing, and his smile faded. ‘Just the attic.’
‘Somebody lives there?’
‘No,’ he said with finality. ‘Not a single living thing.’
I got the feeling he was being truthful. But I was also sure something had
moved that curtain.
‘Come along, Percy,’ Chiron said, his lighthearted tone now a little forced.
‘Lots to see.’
We walked through the strawberry fields, where campers were picking bushels
of berries while a satyr played a tune on a reed pipe.
Chiron told me the camp grew a nice crop for export to New York restaurants
and Mount Olympus. ‘It pays our expenses,’ he explained. ‘And the strawberries
take almost no effort.’
He said Mr D had this effect on fruit-bearing plants: they just went crazy
when he was around. It worked best with wine grapes, but Mr D was restricted
from growing those, so they grew strawberries instead.
I watched the satyr playing his pipe. His music was causing lines of bugs to
leave the strawberry patch in every direction, like refugees fleeing a fire. I
wondered if Grover could work that kind of magic with music. I wondered if he
was still inside the farmhouse, being lectured by Mr D.
‘Grover won’t get in too much trouble, will he?’ I asked Chiron. ‘I mean… he
was a good protector. Really.’
Chiron sighed. He shed his tweed jacket and draped it over his horse’s back
like a saddle. ‘Grover has big dreams, Percy. Perhaps bigger than are reasonable.
To reach his goal, he must first demonstrate great courage by succeeding as a
keeper, finding a new camper and bringing him safely to Half-Blood Hill.’
‘But he did that!’
‘I might agree with you,’ Chiron said. ‘But it is not my place to judge.
Dionysus and the Council of Cloven Elders must decide. I’m afraid they might
not see this assignment as a success. After all, Grover lost you in New York.
Then there’s the unfortunate… ah… fate of your mother. And the fact that
Grover was unconscious when you dragged him over the property line. The
council might question whether this shows any courage on Grover’s part.’
I wanted to protest. None of what had happened was Grover’s fault. I also felt
really, really guilty. If I hadn’t given Grover the slip at the bus station, he might
not have got in trouble.
‘He’ll get a second chance, won’t he?’
Chiron winced. ‘I’m afraid that was Grover’s second chance, Percy. The
council was not anxious to give him another, either, after what happened the first
time, five years ago. Olympus knows, I advised him to wait longer before trying
again. He’s still so small for his age…’
‘How old is he?’
‘Oh, twenty-eight.’
‘What! And he’s in sixth grade?’
‘Satyrs mature half as fast as humans, Percy. Grover has been the equivalent
of a middle school student for the past six years.’
‘That’s horrible.’
‘Quite,’ Chiron agreed. ‘At any rate, Grover is a late bloomer, even by satyr
standards, and not yet very accomplished at woodland magic. Alas, he was
anxious to pursue his dream. Perhaps now he will find some other career…’
‘That’s not fair,’ I said. ‘What happened the first time? Was it really so bad?’
Chiron looked away quickly. ‘Let’s move along, shall we?’
But I wasn’t quite ready to let the subject drop. Something had occurred to me
when Chiron talked about my mother’s fate, as if he were intentionally avoiding
the word death. The beginnings of an idea – a tiny, hopeful fire – started forming
in my mind.
‘Chiron,’ I said. ‘If the gods and Olympus and all that are real…’
‘Yes, child?’
‘Does that mean the Underworld is real, too?’
Chiron’s expression darkened.
‘Yes, child.’ He paused, as if choosing his words carefully. ‘There is a place
where spirits go after death. But for now… until we know more… I would urge
you to put that out of your mind.’
‘What do you mean, “until we know more”?’
‘Come, Percy. Let’s see the woods.’
As we got closer, I realized how huge the forest was. It took up at least a quarter
of the valley, with trees so tall and thick, you could imagine nobody had been in
there since the Native Americans.
Chiron said, ‘The woods are stocked, if you care to try your luck, but go
armed.’
‘Stocked with what?’ I asked. ‘Armed with what?’
‘You’ll see. Capture the flag is Friday night. Do you have your own sword and
shield?’
‘My own –’
‘No,’ Chiron said. ‘I don’t suppose you do. I think a size five will do. I’ll visit
the armoury later.’
I wanted to ask what kind of summer camp had an armoury, but there was too
much else to think about, so the tour continued. We saw the archery range, the
canoeing lake, the stables (which Chiron didn’t seem to like very much), the
javelin range, the sing-along amphitheatre, and the arena where Chiron said they
held sword and spear fights.
‘Sword and spear fights?’ I asked.
‘Cabin challenges and all that,’ he explained. ‘Not lethal. Usually. Oh, yes,
and there’s the mess hall.’
Chiron pointed to an outdoor pavilion framed in white Grecian columns on a
hill overlooking the sea. There were a dozen stone picnic tables. No roof. No
walls.
‘What do you do when it rains?’ I asked.
Chiron looked at me as if I’d gone a little weird. ‘We still have to eat, don’t
we?’ I decided to drop the subject.
Finally, he showed me the cabins. There were twelve of them, nestled in the
woods by the lake. They were arranged in a U, with two at the base and five in a
row on either side. And they were without doubt the most bizarre collection of
buildings I’d ever seen.
Except for the fact that each had a large brass number above the door (odds on
the left side, evens on the right), they looked absolutely nothing alike. Number
nine had smokestacks like a tiny factory. Number four had tomato vines on the
walls and a roof made out of real grass. Seven seemed to be made of solid gold,
which gleamed so much in the sunlight it was almost impossible to look at. They
all faced a commons area about the size of a soccer field, dotted with Greek
statues, fountains, flower beds, and a couple of basketball hoops (which were
more my speed).
In the centre of the field was a huge stone-lined firepit. Even though it was a
warm afternoon, the hearth smouldered. A girl about nine years old was tending
the flames, poking the coals with a stick.
The pair of cabins at the head of the field, numbers one and two, looked like
his-and-hers mausoleums, big white marble boxes with heavy columns in front.
Cabin one was the biggest and bulkiest of the twelve. Its polished bronze doors
shimmered like a holograph, so that from different angles lightning bolts seemed
to streak across them. Cabin two was more graceful somehow, with slimmer
columns garlanded with pomegranates and flowers. The walls were carved with
images of peacocks.
‘Zeus and Hera?’ I guessed.
‘Correct,’ Chiron said.
‘Their cabins look empty.’
‘Several of the cabins are. That’s true. No one ever stays in one or two.’
Okay. So each cabin had a different god, like a mascot. Twelve cabins for the
twelve Olympians. But why would some be empty?
I stopped in front of the first cabin on the left, cabin three.
It wasn’t high and mighty like cabin one, but long and low and solid. The
outer walls were of rough grey stone studded with pieces of seashell and coral,
as if the slabs had been hewn straight from the bottom of the ocean floor. I
peeked inside the open doorway and Chiron said, ‘Oh, I wouldn’t do that!’
Before he could pull me back, I caught the salty scent of the interior, like the
wind on the shore at Montauk. The interior walls glowed like abalone. There
were six empty bunk beds with silk sheets turned down. But there was no sign
anyone had ever slept there. The place felt so sad and lonely, I was glad when
Chiron put his hand on my shoulder and said, ‘Come along, Percy.’
Most of the other cabins were crowded with campers.
Number five was bright red – a real nasty paint job, as if the colour had been
splashed on with buckets and fists. The roof was lined with barbed wire. A
stuffed wild boar’s head hung over the doorway, and its eyes seemed to follow
me. Inside I could see a bunch of mean-looking kids, both girls and boys, arm
wrestling and arguing with each other while rock music blared. The loudest was
a girl maybe thirteen or fourteen. She wore a size XXXL Camp Half-Blood Tshirt under a camouflage jacket. She zeroed in on me and gave me an evil sneer.
She reminded me of Nancy Bobofit, though the camper girl was much bigger
and tougher looking, and her hair was long and stringy, and brown instead of
red.
I kept walking, trying to stay clear of Chiron’s hooves. ‘We haven’t seen any
other centaurs,’ I observed.
‘No,’ said Chiron sadly. ‘My kinsmen are a wild and barbaric folk, I’m afraid.
You might encounter them in the wilderness, or at major sporting events. But
you won’t see any here.’
‘You said your name was Chiron. Are you really…’
He smiled down at me. ‘The Chiron from the stories? Trainer of Hercules and
all that? Yes, Percy, I am.’
‘But, shouldn’t you be dead?’
Chiron paused, as if the question intrigued him. ‘I honestly don’t know about
should be. The truth is, I can’t be dead. You see, aeons ago the gods granted my
wish. I could continue the work I loved. I could be a teacher of heroes as long as
humanity needed me. I gained much from that wish… and I gave up much. But
I’m still here, so I can only assume I’m still needed.’
I thought about being a teacher for three thousand years. It wouldn’t have
made my Top Ten Things to Wish For list.
‘Doesn’t it ever get boring?’
‘No, no,’ he said. ‘Horribly depressing, at times, but never boring.’
‘Why depressing?’
Chiron seemed to turn hard of hearing again.
‘Oh, look,’ he said. ‘Annabeth is waiting for us.’
* * *
The blonde girl I’d met at the Big House was reading a book in front of the last
cabin on the left, number eleven.
When we reached her, she looked me over critically, like she was still thinking
about how much I drooled.
I tried to see what she was reading, but I couldn’t make out the title. I thought
my dyslexia was acting up. Then I realized the title wasn’t even English. The
letters looked Greek to me. I mean, literally Greek. There were pictures of
temples and statues and different kinds of columns, like those in an architecture
book.
‘Annabeth,’ Chiron said, ‘I have masters’ archery class at noon. Would you
take Percy from here?’
‘Yes, sir.’
‘Cabin eleven,’ Chiron told me, gesturing towards the doorway. ‘Make
yourself at home.’
Out of all the cabins, eleven looked the most like a regular old summer camp
cabin, with the emphasis on old. The threshold was worn down, the brown paint
peeling. Over the doorway was one of those doctor’s symbols, a winged pole
with two snakes wrapped around it. What did they call it…? A caduceus.
Inside, it was packed with people, both boys and girls, way more than the
number of bunk beds. Sleeping bags were spread all over on the floor. It looked
like a gym where the Red Cross had set up an evacuation centre.
Chiron didn’t go in. The door was too low for him. But when the campers saw
him they all stood and bowed respectfully.
‘Well, then,’ Chiron said. ‘Good luck, Percy. I‘ll see you at dinner.’
He galloped away towards the archery range.
I stood in the doorway, looking at the kids. They weren’t bowing any more.
They were staring at me, sizing me up. I knew this routine. I’d gone through it at
enough schools.
‘Well?’ Annabeth prompted. ‘Go on.’
So naturally I tripped coming in the door and made a total fool of myself.
There were some snickers from the campers, but none of them said anything.
Annabeth announced, ‘Percy Jackson, meet cabin eleven.’
‘Regular or undetermined?’somebody asked.
I didn’t know what to say, but Annabeth said, ‘Undetermined.’
Everybody groaned.
A guy who was a little older than the rest came forward. ‘Now, now, campers.
That’s what we’re here for. Welcome, Percy. You can have that spot on the floor,
right over there.’
The guy was about nineteen, and he looked pretty cool. He was tall and
muscular, with short-cropped sandy hair and a friendly smile. He wore an orange
tank top, cutoffs, sandals and a leather necklace with five different-coloured clay
beads. The only thing unsettling about his appearance was a thick white scar that
ran from just beneath his right eye to his jaw, like an old knife slash.
‘This is Luke,’ Annabeth said, and her voice sounded different somehow. I
glanced over and could’ve sworn she was blushing. She saw me looking, and her
expression hardened again. ‘He’s your counsellor for now.’
‘For now?’ I asked.
‘You’re undetermined,’ Luke explained patiently. ‘They don’t know what
cabin to put you in, so you’re here. Cabin eleven takes all newcomers, all
visitors. Naturally, we would. Hermes, our patron, is the god of travellers.’
I looked at the tiny section of floor they’d given me. I had nothing to put there
to mark it as my own, no luggage, no clothes, no sleeping bag. Just the
Minotaur’s horn. I thought about setting that down, but then I remembered that
Hermes was also the god of thieves.
I looked around at the campers’ faces, some sullen and suspicious, some
grinning stupidly, some eyeing me as if they were waiting for a chance to pick
my pockets.
‘How long will I be here?’ I asked.
‘Good question,’ Luke said. ‘Until you’re determined.’
‘How long will that take?’
The campers all laughed.
‘Come on,’ Annabeth told me. ‘I’ll show you the volleyball court.’
‘I’ve already seen it.’
‘Come on.’
She grabbed my wrist and dragged me outside. I could hear the kids of cabin
eleven laughing behind me.
When we were a few metres away, Annabeth said, ‘Jackson, you have to do
better than that.’
‘What?’
She rolled her eyes and mumbled under her breath, ‘I can’t believe I thought
you were the one.’
‘What’s your problem?’ I was getting angry now. ‘All I know is, I kill some
bull guy –’
‘Don’t talk like that!’ Annabeth told me. ‘You know how many kids at this
camp wish they’d had your chance?’
‘To get killed?’
‘To fight the Minotaur! What do you think we train for?’
I shook my head. ‘Look, if the thing I fought really was the Minotaur, the
same one in the stories…’
‘Yes.’
‘Then there’s only one.’
‘Yes.’
‘And he died, like, a gajillion years ago, right? Theseus killed him in the
labyrinth. So…’
‘Monsters don’t die, Percy. They can be killed. But they don’t die.’
‘Oh, thanks. That clears it up.’
‘They don’t have souls, like you and me. You can dispel them for a while,
maybe even for a whole lifetime if you’re lucky. But they are primal forces.
Chiron calls them archetypes. Eventually, they re-form.’
I thought about Mrs Dodds. ‘You mean if I killed one, accidentally, with a
sword –’
‘The Fu… I mean, your maths teacher. That’s right. She’s still out there. You
just made her very, very mad.’
‘How did you know about Mrs Dodds?’
‘You talk in your sleep.’
‘You almost called her something. A Fury? They’re Hades’ torturers, right?’
Annabeth glanced nervously at the ground, as if she expected it to open up
and swallow her. ‘You shouldn’t call them by name, even here. We call them the
Kindly Ones, if we have to speak of them at all.’
‘Look, is there anything we can say without it thundering?’ I sounded whiny,
even to myself, but right then I didn’t care. ‘Why do I have to stay in cabin
eleven, anyway? Why is everybody so crowded together? There are plenty of
empty bunks right over there.’
I pointed to the first few cabins, and Annabeth turned pale. ‘You don’t just
choose a cabin, Percy. It depends on who your parents are. Or… your parent.’
She stared at me, waiting for me to get it.
‘My mom is Sally Jackson,’ I said. ‘She works at the candy store in Grand
Central Station. At least, she used to.’
‘I’m sorry about your mom, Percy. But that’s not what I mean. I’m talking
about your other parent. Your dad.’
‘He’s dead. I never knew him.’
Annabeth sighed. Clearly, she’d had this conversation before with other kids.
‘Your father’s not dead, Percy.’
‘How can you say that? You know him?’
‘No, of course not.’
‘Then how can you say –’
‘Because I know you. You wouldn’t be here if you weren’t one of us.’
‘You don’t know anything about me.’
‘No?’ She raised an eyebrow. ‘I bet you moved around from school to school.
I bet you were kicked out of a lot of them.’
‘How –’
‘Diagnosed with dyslexia. Probably ADHD, too.’
I tried to swallow my embarrassment. ‘What does that have to do with
anything?’
‘Taken together, it’s almost a sure sign. The letters float off the page when you
read, right? That’s because your mind is hardwired for ancient Greek. And the
ADHD – you’re impulsive, can’t sit still in the classroom. That’s your battlefield
reflexes. In a real fight, they’d keep you alive. As for the attention problems,
that’s because you see too much, Percy, not too little. Your senses are better than
a regular mortal’s. Of course the teachers want you medicated. Most of them are
monsters. They don’t want you seeing them for what they are.’
‘You sound like… you went through the same thing?’
‘Most of the kids here did. If you weren’t like us, you couldn’t have survived
the Minotaur, much less the ambrosia and nectar.’
‘Ambrosia and nectar.’
‘The food and drink we were giving you to make you better. That stuff
would’ve killed a normal kid. It would’ve turned your blood to fire and your
bones to sand and you’d be dead. Face it. You’re a half-blood.’
A half-blood.
I was reeling with so many questions I didn’t know where to start.
Then a husky voice yelled, ‘Well! A newbie!’
I looked over. The big girl from the ugly red cabin was sauntering towards us.
She had three other girls behind her, all big and ugly and mean-looking like her,
all wearing camo jackets.
‘Clarisse,’ Annabeth sighed. ‘Why don’t you go polish your spear or
something?’
‘Sure, Miss Princess,’ the big girl said. ‘So I can run you through with it
Friday night.’
‘Errete es korakas,’ Annabeth said, which I somehow understood was Greek
for “Go to the crows”, though I had a feeling it was a worse curse than it
sounded. ‘You don’t stand a chance.’
‘We’ll pulverize you,’ Clarisse said, but her eye twitched. Perhaps she wasn’t
sure she could follow through on the threat. She turned towards me. ‘Who’s this
little runt?’
‘Percy Jackson,’ Annabeth said, ‘meet Clarisse, Daughter of Ares.’
I blinked. ‘Like… the war god?’
Clarisse sneered. ‘You got a problem with that?’
‘No,’ I said, recovering my wits. ‘It explains the bad smell.’
Clarisse growled. ‘We got an initiation ceremony for newbies, Prissy.’
‘Percy.’
‘Whatever. Come on, I’ll show you.’
‘Clarisse –’ Annabeth tried to say.
‘Stay out of it, wise girl.’
Annabeth looked pained, but she did stay out of it, and I didn’t really want her
help. I was the new kid. I had to earn my own rep.
I handed Annabeth my Minotaur horn and got ready to fight, but before I
knew it, Clarisse had me by the neck and was dragging me towards a cinderblock building that I knew immediately was the bathroom.
I was kicking and punching. I’d been in plenty of fights before, but this big
girl Clarisse had hands like iron. She dragged me into the girls’ bathroom. There
was a line of toilets on one side and a line of shower stalls down the other. It
smelled just like any public bathroom, and I was thinking – as much as I could
think with Clarisse ripping my hair out – that if this place belonged to the gods,
they should’ve been able to afford classier toilets.
Clarisse’s friends were all laughing, and I was trying to find the strength I’d
used to fight the Minotaur, but it just wasn’t there.
‘Like he’s “Big Three” material,’ Clarisse said as she pushed me towards one
of the toilets. ‘Yeah, right. Minotaur probably fell over laughing, he was so
stupid-looking.’
Her friends snickered.
Annabeth stood in the corner, watching through her fingers.
Clarisse bent me over on my knees and started pushing my head towards the
toilet bowl. It reeked like rusted pipes and, well, like what goes into toilets. I
strained to keep my head up. I was looking at the scummy water thinking, I will
not go into that. I won’t.
Then something happened. I felt a tug in the pit of my stomach. I heard the
plumbing rumble, the pipes shudder. Clarisse’s grip on my hair loosened. Water
shot out of the toilet, making an arc straight over my head, and the next thing I
knew, I was sprawled on the bathroom tiles with Clarisse screaming behind me.
I turned just as water blasted out of the toilet again, hitting Clarisse straight in
the face so hard it pushed her down onto her butt. The water stayed on her like
the spray from a fire hose, pushing her backwards into a shower stall.
She struggled, gasping, and her friends started coming towards her. But then
the other toilets exploded, too, and six more streams of toilet water blasted them
back. The showers acted up, too, and together all the fixtures sprayed the
camouflage girls right out of the bathroom, spinning them around like pieces of
garbage being washed away.
As soon as they were out the door, I felt the tug in my gut lessen, and the
water shut off as quickly as it had started.
The entire bathroom was flooded. Annabeth hadn’t been spared. She was
dripping wet, but she hadn’t been pushed out the door. She was standing in
exactly the same place, staring at me in shock.
I looked down and realized I was sitting in the only dry spot in the whole
room. There was a circle of dry floor around me. I didn’t have one drop of water
on my clothes. Nothing.
I stood up, my legs shaky.
Annabeth said, ‘How did you…’
‘I don’t know.’
We walked to the door. Outside, Clarisse and her friends were sprawled in the
mud, and a bunch of other campers had gathered around to gawk. Clarisse’s hair
was flattened across her face. Her camouflage jacket was sopping and she
smelled like sewage. She gave me a look of absolute hatred. ‘You are dead, new
boy. You are totally dead.’
I probably should have let it go, but I said, ‘You want to gargle with toilet
water again, Clarisse? Close your mouth.’
Her friends had to hold her back. They dragged her towards cabin five, while
the other campers made way to avoid her flailing feet.
Annabeth stared at me. I couldn’t tell whether she was just grossed out or
angry at me for dousing her.
‘What?’ I demanded. ‘What are you thinking?’
‘I’m thinking,’she said, ‘that I want you on my team for capture the flag.’